
ABSTRACT: Health consumers are increasingly participating in consumer-toconsumer (C2C) online health communities (OHCs) to receive health-related support and to provide assistance and support to others. However, questions remain as to how individual OHC participants are affected by the relationships they have established within an OHC and how the content exchanged between OHC participants impacts individual-level health knowledge and attitudes. To address these open questions, we develop a model that integrates participant network position (i.e., structural social capital) in an OHC, informational and emotional support exchange, and downstream individual-level health knowledge and attitudes. Based on a panel dataset collected from nine chronic disease-focused discussion boards within an OHC platform, we find that structural social capital is indeed a significant antecedent to social support exchange within an OHC and, interestingly, that social


Introduction

Health care consumers frequently seek peer support from their social relationships to improve self-management of health and promote health outcomes [42, 119]. A major challenge for health care consumers leveraging physical social networks is that even the weakest ties1 may not possess needed (or enough) specialized information or support [54, 130]. Thus, health information acquisition and provisioning is costly [33], particularly in physical social networks when trying to find others with similar health conditions who are willing to provide relevant support. This challenge is exacerbated in the chronic disease context as attitudes and knowledge about the chronic disease are likely to develop over time, requiring multiple and potentially ongoing interactions with others (as opposed to a quick question and answer that provides the solution) [e.g., 141, 142]. In order to reduce the cost and effort of acquiring needed health support from physical networks, online networks are now increasingly being used to facilitate making connections, exchanging information, and, hopefully, learning more about how to address chronic disease causes, symptoms, and solutions [e.g., 11, 50, 54, 77, 141]. Online health communities (OHCs) are virtual social networks2 where individuals can share health experiences, post health questions, seek, and/or provide support [30, 45, 90]. An OHC facilitates virtual social exchanges3 between participants who may otherwise be distant from each other [68, 86]. However, in the context of OHCs, a key research challenge is determining whether or not connections established with other participants within the OHC impact social exchanges that occur within the OHC and, ultimately, whether such social exchanges actually help to improve individual level health knowledge and attitudes.
  To address this research challenge, we jointly consider the relationships between the structure of the social network established by each participant within an OHC (i.e., structural social capital4), social exchanges within the OHC, and the overall impact on participant health knowledge and attitudes. While substantial research has been conducted on social capital and social exchange in both physical networks [e.g., 1, 2, 53, 65, 70, 86, 89] and virtual networks [e.g., 29, 30, 46, 47, 51, 122, 126, 140, 142, 145], scholars have yet to theoretically integrate: 1) structural social capital established within an OHC, 2) social exchange of support that occurs within the OHC (referred to henceforth as simply social support exchange or social support), and 3) the overall effect on health knowledge and attitudes resulting from OHC use. Research has previously considered the effects of social capital on knowledge contributions (and sharing) in online communities [e.g., 29, 30, 126], but has not fully investigated the nature of the exchange relationship (i.e., disaggregating the effects of provisioning and receipt of both informational and emotional support) and, importantly, has not thoroughly examined whether or not such exchanges actually promote each participant’s downstream knowledge or attitudes.
  Furthermore, structural social capital established within an OHC has not yet been formally hypothesized to affect social support exchanged within the OHC [e.g., 140, 145]. This is important to consider in a research model of online exchanges, as prior exchanges, which are leveraged to establish structural social capital, are likely to influence the nature of future exchanges. Additionally, while there is a growing body of evidence that health social networks can have positive effects on intermediate outcomes, including health behaviors [72, 127] and health promotion [9], findings to date have yielded modest effects on such dependent variables with significant variability in results. We argue that previous mixed findings and modest effects may be generally due to lack of considerations of: 1) how social capital within an OHC affects exchange of social support within the OHC, and 2) how such social exchange ultimately impacts health knowledge (literacy) and attitude valence. Thus, our research questions are:
Research Question 1: How does individual-level structural social capital established within an OHC affect social support exchange practices within the OHC?
Research Question 2: How do individual-level social support exchange practices within an OHC affect personal health knowledge (literacy) and attitudes?
  To answer these questions, we first review the extant literature and propose an integrative theoretical model. We then test our hypotheses using a computational multi-method framework which combines natural language processing, machine learning, social network analysis, sentiment analysis, and econometric methods applied to a dataset collected from an OHC platform covering nine different chronic conditions (i.e., the OHC has nine separate discussion boards, each dedicated to a specific chronic condition). In-depth analysis of user-generated content within OHCs has yet to be combined with social network analysis of the structure of OHCs. Thus, this research is novel in that, using an innovative combination of computational approaches and estimation methods, we examine the effects of the social structure of the relationships each participant establishes within an OHC on the content each participant exchanges within the OHC as well as the impacts of the exchanged content on individual-level health knowledge and attitudes. Finally, we discuss the contributions and limitations of this study.
Background

In this section, we review the online community and OHC literature. We work toward the synthesis of three related theoretical concepts (structural social capital,

Figure 1. Research model
social support exchange, and health knowledge and attitudes) as an integrative conceptual model (see Figure 1).
Online Communities
Online community research has thoroughly evaluated the nature of relationships and information sharing between online community participants. Research in this area has grown significantly in recent years and has found that: 1) users must be engaged in the virtual community if benefits are to be realized [102], 2) information shared with more sentiment often diffuses among the community faster than purely fact-based information [110], and 3) the type of language used within posts can impact outcomes [67] (additional literature and findings are discussed in detail in Online Supplement Appendix A). Within the subset of online community literature specifically dealing with online health communities (i.e., OHCs), it has been found that: professional capital within OHCs can positively impact value-creation [58], online support can improve patients’ health [141], and OHCs can reduce health capability gaps between rural and urban communities [54].
  While such work has moved our understandings and explanations of OHCs forward, significant gaps remain. In particular, our knowledge regarding the relationship between social capital and social exchange, as well as impacts on individual participants, are quite limited. While some research has shown that social structures in mental health OHCs, for instance, have an impact on how participants of OHCs develop and maintain virtual social relationships [e.g., 140], there is not yet a single theoretical model that integrates the three important aspects of OHCs including social capital, social exchange, and health impact. Specifically, while online community studies have depicted social capital as an antecedent to knowledge contribution and knowledge sharing [e.g., 30, 126], they have not yet fully examined two important aspects of social interaction in OHCs, namely: 1) whether the social exchanges are conditional (i.e., dependent on the establishment of structural social capital in particular) and 2) whether participants are more or less knowledgeable or have experienced changes in attitude (i.e., are more confident or feel better about their understanding of their own health conditions) after such social exchanges.
  Second, prior studies of social support within OHCs have focused on the informational and emotional aspects of support provision and related effects [e.g., 45, 90, 141, 147]. Indeed, provisioning and receipt of informational and emotional support in health care have been found to be contingent on  social network structure and the characteristics of network ties ” [13, p. 143]. Interestingly, the effects of such support on downstream health benefits have of ten been found to be marginal or mixed[45],a situation that has resulted in studies focusingmoreonintermediateoutcomes,suchashealthbehaviors associated with online community use. However, these findings, while stronger than those for health benefits, typically exhibit small effect sizes [e.g., 72, 127].
  Therefore, comprehensive evaluation of social support exchanged in OHCs should include changes in individual knowledge and attitudes related to self-management of health, according to numerous scholars [48, 144]. Thus, in the context of OHCs where participants exchange social support to improve self-management of health, we consider potential effects associated with: 1) changes in knowledge (i.e., health literacy) and 2) changes in attitudes related to oneÕs health (i.e., more positive feelings result in more proactive management of health).
  Given that the literature has yet to theoretically account for: 1) structural social capital, 2) social support exchanges, and 3) impacts on health knowledge and attitudes, we propose an integrative theoretical model. We begin, in the following sub-sections, by providing more detail about each of these theoretical concepts and then, in the following section,developourhypothesesregardingrelationshipsbetweentheconstructsofinterest.
Structural Social Capital
While there is some debate over the definition of social capital [2], its theoretical conceptualization generally refers to resources embedded in a social structure which are accessed and/or mobilized in purposive actions [80, p. 35]. The principal proposition of social capital theory is that networks of relationships can facilitate collective action for the creation of benefits for the participant, contingent on factors such as position in the network and access to non-redundant information[68,86,136].Benefits to the participant include access, in a timely manner, to more and higher quality information as well as potential influence and power [1, 86].
  Structural social capital refers to the potential resources embedded in social interaction ties that individuals have access to by virtue of their structural or topological network positions [47, 115]. While social capital can be considered from many standpoints, including structural(the existence of socialties that facilitate social interaction),relational (social assets created and leveraged through relationships such as trust, norms of reciprocity, and identification), and cognitive (shared vision and language of representative resources providing common representations, interpretations, and meanings among actors), several studies have found structural social capital to be the most relevant within online communities in general [30, 126]. Based on these findings and our desire for a parsimonious model, we restricted our modeling to structural social capital as an antecedent to social support exchange.
  In OHCs, structural social capital allows participants to secure benefits by virtue of participation in the community, such as reading and posting messages in discussion boards, receiving informational answers and emotional support, and locating others with similar concerns. Social interaction ties, which manifest as structural social capital [118], refer to the social connections that an individual has with others through participation in groups [115]. Social interaction ties are important for OHCs in that they bring participants together based on their common health interests and provide access to resources[89].Socialties have been frequently reported as generally beneficial for health, especially when social support is exchanged via the ties [60, 107, 109]. In OHCs, social interaction ties provide a natural and powerful way for participants to exchange healthrelated support resources and “can be particularly effective for participants who cannot mobilize social support from their other social relationships [60, p. 201].
Social Support Exchange
Social support refers to the extent to which an individualÕs basic social needs such as affection, esteem (or approval), belonging, identity, and security are met through interaction with others [69, 114]. In the context of OHCs, social support exchange focuses on exchange of social support [e.g., 90] and functions as a mechanism for learning more about how to manage chronic health conditions and for enhancing attitudes associated with managing chronic conditions. Our conceptualization of social support exchange is related to actions rendered by others with respect to focal individuals [32] through nonbinding exchange (as opposed to negotiated exchanges, where exchanges are bargained for and then typically become binding) [34].
  In this research, structural social capital is modeled as an antecedent to social support exchange (i.e., both provisioning of and receipt of social support), given that: 1) it is well established that structural arrangements affect the frequency of exchange” [34, p. 65]; 2) non-binding exchange is one of “gift-giving” where service and exchange relationships develop over time [34, p. 66]; and 3) “commitments to specific relations likewise increases” [34, p. 82] when uncertainties in finding helpful information from a collective resource are characterized by variation in each participantÕs knowledge and attitudes. Consistent with other studies, we specifically focus on informational support andemotionalsupportastheyarethetwomostfrequenttypesofsocialsupportexchanged online [e.g., 21, 36, 37, 56, 62, 84].
Health Knowledge and Attitudes
In OHCs, information sharing and emotional support exchange enable participants to more completely engage in self-management of their conditions and diseases [50, 66, 132]. Patients sharing information in OHCs benefit by learning from others, improving their disease self-management and, ultimately, improving their health [141]. By actively participating in such social networks, participants are engaging in social information processing and learning that, if effective, should enhance their own knowledge, confidence, and abilities [13, 86]. Employing an opportunity motivation-ability model [17], scholars have found that an OHC provides an opportunity for participants to increase cognitive capability [61] and self-efficacy [105] for managing their health as they learn more from others about how to better manage their conditions. OHC participation increases each participant’s willingness to try new approaches via the formation of more positive attitudes (i.e., increased motivation). Health ability (i.e., knowledge) and motivation (i.e., attitude) are especially applicable to self-management of health behaviors as such intrinsic enablers are essential [88], particularly for volitional behaviors [105].
Hypothesis Development

As shown in Figure 1, our proposed theoretical model is novel in providing a more comprehensive understanding of the dynamics of social interactions enabled by OHCs; it integrates structural social capital, social support exchange, and health knowledge and attitudes. In the first stage of the model, social support exchange is contingent on structural social capital and is disaggregated into informational and emotional support. In the second stage, social support exchange is used to explain health knowledge and attitude outcomes. Specifically, informational support provisioning and receipt explain health literacy while emotional support provisioning and receipt explain health attitudes. Details regarding theory development are provided in the sub-sections that follow.
Effect of Structural Social Capital on Social Support Exchange
We first propose that established structural social capital within an OHC can enhance the amount of informational support that a participant provides to and receives from the community, such as facts, recommendations, and ideas [39]. OHCs provide opportunities to develop new and strengthen existing virtual connections [91]. Structural social capital established through virtual connections in OHCs can reduce the potential for opportunism [34], increase the potential for non-binding exchange [75, 85], and improve information quality, relevance, and timeliness [1].
  As shown later, we measure structural social capital as the betweenness centrality of interaction links between users, where those with a large number of times sitting on the shortest communication path between others become “social hubs” [55, p. 1].
It needs to be noted that our conceptualization of social capital is not specific to the nature or content of these online messages. Rather, for these hypotheses, we propose that one’s status in the topology has a major influence on whether one subsequently influences the discussion thread either by generating more pertinent information or by generating more emotionally supportive replies.
  What is the logic behind this? Being a central player in a network is referred to as “brokerage” in social network theory [24-26]. Those who are more influential, we believe, will leverage their strong brokerage position to then further dominate the online interaction. Burt [26] argues: “People whose networks bridge the structural holes between groups [lack of connection] have an advantage in detecting and developing rewarding opportunities…. [A]rbitrage is their advantage” (p. 354). Central, therefore high status actors exercise more influence by receiving and/or sending information both more widely than others as well as faster than others [12, 96, 97]. The central actor is thus characterized by increased access to critical information and someone who passes it on to others, stimulating ever more activity in the discussion thread.
  Finally, unless the researcher is observing a community since inception (which is not the case in this study), structural social capital has already been established by at least some participants within the online community at the point in time when the research begins. Therefore, given the temporal precedence of structural social capital that has already been established (or is in the process of being established), which in turn impacts future exchange, we consider established structural social capital to be an antecedent to informational support exchange. Given this background and reasoning, we hypothesize that5:
Hypothesis 1a: An online health community (OHC) participant’s degree of structural social capital (SSC) established within the OHC will positively relate to her/his informational support provisioning (ISP) within the OHC.
Hypothesis 1b: An OHC participant’s degree of structural social capital (SSC) established within the OHC will positively relate to her/his informational support receipt (ISR) within the OHC.
  We further posit that established structural social capital plays a role in the amount of emotional support provided and received in OHCs. Emotional support includes the sharing of concerns or empathizing with others [39]. While social exchange theory was originally based on (bounded) rational decision-making primarily focused on exchanges of resources, including information, theorists, particularly in the field of sociology, have recently begun to incorporate affect and to theorize about how such affective considerations play a role in the “dynamic linkages between structure and action” [34, p. 64]. Such theorists have convincingly argued that exchange devoid of emotion is unrealistic, especially given that the reciprocation develops over time [73]. In particular, it has been argued that positive emotions associated with reciprocal exchange can enhance relational commitment and the likelihood of further reciprocations [34, 74, 85]. Following this reasoning and prior findings suggesting that emotional support plays a significant role in OHCs [e.g., 87, 141, 147], we believe that the frequency of the emotional support exchanged is both contingent on the structural social capital developed within the OHC and, as described in the next subsection, serves as an antecedent to the valence of emotional responses (i.e., the health attitudes) to the social support exchange. Thus, we expect that:
Hypothesis 2a: An OHC participant’s degree of structural social capital (SSC) established within the OHC will positively relate to her/his emotional support provisioning (ESP) within the OHC.
Hypothesis 2b: An OHC participant’s degree of structural social capital (SSC) established within the OHC will positively relate to her/his emotional support receipt (ESR) within the OHC.
Effect of Social Support Exchange on Health Knowledge and Attitudes
We evaluate impacts on two dependent variables in this study: 1) health literacy and 2) health attitude valence.
  Health literacy is “a set of skills that people need to function effectively in the health care environment” [14, p. 97]. Health literacy is personally-held knowledge that includes being able to interpret health information, such as nutrition or medication information, and being able to effectively communicate this health information to others [66]. As discussed in a systematic review on the topic [14], decreased levels of individual health literacy are negatively associated with health outcomes as a result of limited health knowledge, comprehension, and under-utilization of health care services, such as preventative services. It has been argued that the exchange of social support, including informational support resulting from being embedded in a social network, can have a positive impact on psychological pathways, including self-efficacy and coping effectiveness [13, 93]. Furthermore, it has been suggested that health literacy is an important antecedent to health behaviors such as proactive selfmanagement of care and seeking preventative care [76]. It has also been suggested that health literacy of an individual depends, in part, on the health literacy of the community within which the individual participates as well as her/his information seeking behaviors [66]. Indeed, OHC studies have found that informational support can have a positive impact on (latent) health conditions [e.g., 141].
  What is critical with respect to research gaps here, however, is that we have yet to see studies that causally link the exchange of informational social support within an OHC to an individual’s health literacy related to OHC participation. In an OHC where participants interact with each other and exhibit health information-seeking behaviors, provisioning and receipt of health-related information among online peers can empower participants, thus promoting healthy behaviors and outcomes. Therefore, we hypothesize that:
Hypothesis 3a: An OHC participant’s degree of informational support provisioning (ISP) within the OHC will positively relate to her/his health literacy (HL).
Hypothesis 3b: An OHC participant’s degree of informational support receipt (ISR) within an OHC will positively relate to her/his health literacy (HL).
  Health attitude valence is the relative feeling of positive sentiments, such as “happiness, joy, excitement, enthusiasm, and contentment” [99, p. 925], as contrasted with negative sentiments associated with one’s perception of emotional social support exchanges. Thus, attitude valence (net) is the amount of positive versus negative emotions an individual associates with the exchange relationship and the nature of the context exchanged, where high valence is typically associated with more positive attitudes [73]. While the role of emotion in affecting health is a complex and heavily debated topic, it is generally accepted that positive attitudes toward health, and especially the ability to either actively participate in or selfmanage one’s health care, play a positive role in improving health behaviors and outcomes [99, 111]. While previous research on OHCs has found that emotional support plays a significant role in affecting health behaviors [e.g., 45] and latent health outcomes [e.g., 141], there are no extant investigations of the direct relationship between emotional social support exchange and health attitudes. Furthermore, while the effects of provisioning and receipt of emotional support have yet to be disaggregated, it has been found that both provision and receipt of such support play an important role in health support exchange [e.g., 134] and can enhance the feeling of empowerment for online community participants [120]. Thus, we hypothesize that:
Hypothesis 4a: An OHC participant’s degree of emotional support provisioning (ESP) within an OHC will positively relate to her/his health attitude valence (HAV).
Hypothesis 4b: An OHC participant’s degree of emotional support receipt (ESR) within an OHC will positively relate to her/his health attitude valence (HAV).
Research Method

We conducted a quantitative field study to empirically test our theoretical model. The data collected for these tests were original posts by OHC participants and replies to these posts. To process this dataset, we applied a multi-method computational approach [52], which combined natural language processing and machine learning techniques to analyze the user-generated digital trace data and to extract measures for the theoretical variables in the proposed research model. The overall research procedures can be found in Online Supplement Appendix B Figure B1 and further details are set forth in Appendices C-E.
  Data were collected from a large web-based OHC platform that facilitates peer-to -peer interaction between online participants with similar health conditions. Participants can join a discussion board within this OHC for free, then share relevant experiences or information and ask or answer health-related questions. A typical scenario of social support exchange on one of these discussion boards begins with a participant initiating a message on a particular topic, followed by other participants’ responses to this discussion. A discussion thread is a group of messages focusing on a particular question or topic initiated by a participant, while a reply or response is a message by another participant replying to the initial post.
  To obtain a representative sample, we selected nine US-hosted discussion boards within the OHC. The sample consisted of chronic health conditions including: 1) general conditions (chronic pain and obesity), 2) mental and behavioral conditions (depression, anxiety, alcoholism, physical and emotional abuse, and insomnia), and 3) specific diseases (type 2 diabetes and HIV). Aweb scraping program was used to extract user-generated content from the nine discussion boards. Potential invasion of personal privacy in this research is expected to be minimal (please refer to Online Supplement Appendix C for more details). We received institutional review board (IRB) approval for the research protocol. In total, we obtained 96,360 online discussion threads containing 867,799 replies posted by 22,484 participants.
Variables and Measures
Table 1 presents the operationalized definition of variables as well as the analytical methods used to extract and render them amenable to econometric analysis.
Measuring Structural Social Capital
Centrality is the key component of social capital [22]. Centrality refers to the extent to which an OHC participant connects to the interaction network [71, 106]. The higher degree of centrality a participant has in a network, the greater the intensity, frequency, and intimacy of the social relations, thus providing different resources for the participant when seeking to obtain and exchange health-related social support. Commonly used network centrality measures include degree (number of unique connections[126]), closeness (how close a participant is to other participants), and betweenness centralities (the fraction of times a participant resides on the shortest path between other two individuals [49]). Following prior studies of online communities [47, 64, 67], we used betweenness centrality to measure the structural social capital of online participants in the community, meanwhile we controlled for degree centrality (both in-degree and out-degree centralities). Betweenness indicates the extent to which a participant is in the middle of the Table 1. Theoretical Constructs and Measures

Structural Social Capital (SSC) Established within an online health communities (OHC)
Betweenness Structural social capital refers to the cumulative Social Network resources embedded in the social interaction Analysis ties that an individual has access to by virtue of her/his network structural positions. The structural social capital is measured as betweenness centrality of the cumulative postresponse network at the beginning of a given month (or at the end of the previous month).
Social Support Exchanged within an OHC
Informational Support
Provisioning (ISP)The total number of informational support messages provided by the focal participant to other participants in a given month.SVM Text
ClassificationInformational Support
Receipt (ISR)The total number of informational support messages that the focal participant receivesfrom other participants in a given month.
Emotional Support	The total number of emotional support
	Provisioning (ESP)	messages provided by the focal participant to
other participants in a given month.Emotional Support
Receipt (ESR)The total number of emotional support messages that the focal participant receives from other participants in a given month.Dependent Variables: Health Knowledge (Literacy) and Attitude Valence
Health Literacy (HL)The average number of unified medical	UMLS Term language system (UMLS) terms used in the	Identification focal participant’s informational support messages posted in a given month.Health Attitude Valence (HAV)The average attitude valence score expressed in Sentiment the focal participant’s messages posted in Analysis a given month.
communication between participants in the community [47, 108]. From the perspective of weak ties [57, 129], betweenness measures the structural social capital, based on the idea that a person is positioned more centrally if she or he is more important in intermediating others’ communication. The higher the betweenness for a participant, the more this participant can exploit the advantage of brokerage (or bridging).
  To obtain social network measures, a directed and unweighted network was constructed for each month based on post-response relationships. A post-response link from participant i to j represents that participant i has responded to participant j’s posts. To control for simultaneity, the longitudinal network dataset contains the cumulative post-response relationships among all community participants till the beginning of a given month t (or the end of the previous month t-1) such that the social support exchanged in current month t is not counted in the social network measures. In this study, the OHC post-response longitudinal network contains 1,435,323 cumulative ties across 36 months. We next used the social network analysis package Pajek [41] to calculate betweenness from the longitudinal network dataset using the following formula:

where ?ij is the total number of shortest paths from participant i to j, ?ijðvÞ is the number of those paths that are through participant v, and N denotes the total number of participants.
Measuring Social Support Exchange
Much of the previous research on OHCs employs a manual content analysis approach whereby researchers read through the online messages and manually assign categories to them [e.g., 125]. Manual approaches quickly become intractable with the exponential growth of content in most real-world virtual networks. Given our aim to analyze a large amount of user-generated data on the Internet, automatic content analysis was the most tractable approach [e.g., 4, 139, 141]. Therefore, this study applies natural language processing and machine learning approaches to build classifiers for informational and emotional support.
  To instantiate the approach, we first manually coded 3,086 replies (refer to Online Supplement Appendix D) and then used them as a training pool for the automatic text classifiers (refer to Online Supplement Appendix E) based on a support vector machine (SVM) model [123]. The SVM-based automatic qualitative content analysis has been shown to provide results comparable to those concluded from traditional manual content analysis [63, 124]. A 10-fold cross-validation shows that the SVM classifiers with the accuracy of 87.4 percent for the informational support and 84.0 percent for the emotional support are superior to other tested classification techniques, as further described in Online Supplement Appendix E. Next, the trained classifiers were used to automatically code the rest of the online replies. Given that the unit of analysis for this study is at the individual level, automated content analyses of social support at the message level were aggregated to the individual level (i.e., the total amount of social support that a participant provided to and received from other community participants) in order to measure social support exchange variables in the proposed research model.
  Our approach is consistent with several prior IS studies that have employed machine learning in their econometric analyses of large datasets. For example, Yan and Tan’s Information Systems Research paper [141] employed LingPipe (http://alias-i.com), which applies machine learning algorithms for automatic textual categorization, to predict the probability that an online message belongs to a certain type of social support and then included these results of machine learning classification as independent variables in their econometric models. Another example is Aggarwal and Singh’s MIS Quarterly paper [4], which used supervised machine learning methods to classify sentiment and then employed these sentiment scores in their econometric modeling. The overall accuracy of their classifier was 73.15 percent (our SVM-based social support classifiers have 87.41 percent accuracy for informational support and 84.01 percent accuracy for emotional support). Still another example is Wu et al.’s study [139], which used SentiStrength, the algorithm used in the current study as well as in Stieglitz and Dang-Xuan’s Journal of Management Information Systems paper [110], to classify online review participators as either promotion-focused or prevention-focused.
  Finally, in regard to the potential for measurement error and accounting for such error, although machine learning cannot provide perfect measures, it is the most tractable approach to analyzing a large amount of user-generated data. Indeed, all social science research is plagued with measurement error of some sort. In Cronbach’s classic work [38] on reliability of measures, he pointed out that the true score (hidden behind the veil of reality) is composed of the observed score plus systematic and unsystematic error. Systematic error like non-response bias can be checked through timed wave techniques. Unsystematic error or random error can be checked through standardized reliability tests. Cronbach’s metric for the reliability of measures (called famously Cronbach’s alpha), for example, captures the extent to which multiple measures of the same construct will vary away from the true score. The benchmarks for acceptable Cronbach alphas (which range from zero to 1) converge on 0.70, a statistic which still has some measurement error in it, but not enough to totally disrupt the statistical equations. Perhaps the most cited benchmark of this sort is in Nunnally and Bernstein’s book on psychometrics [92]. Our point is that our level of measurement error is, we believe, actually quite good by social science standards and the de facto standards of published research in other premier journals. Additionally, our aforementioned tests seem to reify this judgment.
Measuring Health Literacy
Health literacy is defined by the US Institute of Medicine as “the degree to which individuals have the capacity to obtain, process, and understand basic health information and services needed to make appropriate health decisions” [101, p. vi]. The number of terms used by people largely shapes their thinking of the world [116, 131]. In the health care domain, the number of health care terms recognized or understood by a patient has been widely used to measure the patient’s level of health literacy [e.g., 8, 40, 94, 104]. Following this rationale, we argue that the number of health-related terms used by OHC participants in their online discussions indicates their capacity to comprehend and process basic health information needed for health information seeking and informed decision-making. The challenge, however, is that the original terms and expressions by OHC participants cannot directly measure health literacy in that consumers think and express healthrelated concepts in different ways than healthcare professionals [146]. Furthermore, survey-based measures of health literacy are not only subject to biases (such as the social desirability bias [10]), but are also not applicable to the current observational study leveraging user-generated digital trace data. Therefore, adopting the method used by Huang and Chengalur-Smith [62], we mapped health-related terms expressed in informational support messages to professional health terminologies using the unified medical language system (UMLS). We then counted the matched terms to assess each participant’s level of health literacy.
  UMLS is a repository of biomedical and health-related terminologies developed by the US National Library of Medicine (NLM) [20]. It offers a repository of health-related terms in the UMLS semantic network. MetaMap,6 was used to map terms in informational support replies to UMLS terminologies. The average number of UMLS terms used in a participant’s informational support replies measures the level of her/his health literacy [62].
Measuring Health Attitude Valence
Opinion mining techniques were used to classify individuals’ attitudes expressed in user-generated content in the OHC. Opinion mining, a sub-discipline of data mining and computational linguistics, is the field of study that uses computational techniques to extract, classify, understand, and assess the opinions toward entities such as products, services, organizations, individuals, issues, events, and topics [79]. With the explosion of textual information appearing in natural languages, opinion mining has attracted the attention of many scholars in IS and other disciplines, such as computer science and linguistics. A subset of opinion mining, the approach known as sentiment analysis has been widely used to identify sentiments, evaluations, appraisals, attitudes, and emotions in settings such as social network sites [3], blogs [82], and online communities [78].
  In this study, we used the tool SentiStrength7 [112, 113] to measure the strength of the valence of attitudes, positive and negative, expressed in OHC posts and replies. The SentiStrength algorithm has been demonstrated to provide better performance than a wide range of general machine learning approaches [113]. SentiStrength allocates to evaluated text both a positive attitude strength on a scale of 1 (no positive attitude) to 5 (very strong positive attitude) and a negative attitude strength on a scale of -1 (no negative attitude) to -5 (very strong negative attitude). Each message in our dataset was assigned both a positive and a negative attitude score. Then we applied the following formula by Stieglitz and Dang-Xuan [110] to calculate the attitude valence for each message:
Attitude Valence Netð	Þ ¼ Positive Attitude Score þ Negative Attitude Score Therefore, the final measure of attitude valence ranges from -4 (very strong negative valence) to +4 (very strong positive valence). Finally, we aggregated the attitude valence of messages to the individual participant level by use of means.
Measuring Control Variables
We controlled for a number of factors that could potentially be rival explanations of online social support exchange and health outcomes. Our control variables include: 1) the participant’s tenure in the community [54, 62, 126, 140, 141]; 2) the number of posts submitted by the participant [140, 141]; 3) the number of replies submitted by the participant [126]; 4) the network degree centrality (the degree to which a patient is involved with other online peers in the community) [141]; and 5) dummy variables for each of the nine health conditions [147]. Further details on our control variables and on our approaches to addressing endogeneity concerns are presented in Online Supplement Appendix F.
  As it would be difficult to detect effects on social support exchange and health knowledge and attitude development for individuals who were only tangentially involved in OHCs, we only included individuals who posted at least 50 messages on the OHC. By doing so, we were able to construct a short and unbalanced panel dataset of 2,798 individuals spanning 36 months. Table G1 in Online Supplement Appendix G shows the summary statistics and pairwise correlations of these variables.
Model Specification and Estimation
We applied a dynamic panel model framework to estimate social support exchange models by including the lag of dependent variable to control for the potential persistence in individual decision making and actions in OHCs from month to month [83]. Let SSEit denotes the social support exchange by participant iði ¼ 1;2;:::;NÞ at month tðt ¼ 1;2;:::;TÞ. Then, the social support exchange models are specified as:
SSEit ¼ ?þ SSEit1?1 þ SSCit?þ Wit?þ montht þ ?i þ?it
where SSEit1 denotes the corresponding dependent variable lagged by one time period; ? is the constant term; SSCit denotes cumulative structural social capital measured as betweenness centrality at the beginning of month t; Wit represents all control variables; montht is a set of monthly dummies; ?i indicates individual fixed effects (or unobserved heterogeneity); ?1, ?, and ? are model parameters to estimate; and ?it is the error term. We conducted Wooldridge test [44, 138] for serial correlation in panel data and found evidence to reject the null hypotheses that there is no first-order autocorrelation in the idiosyncratic errors of social support exchange panel models (p-values < 0.001). The presence of serial correlation supports our choice of dynamic panel approach for social support exchange models.
  We tested our hypotheses of social support exchange by using the Arellano-Bover /Blundell-Bond dynamic panel model [7, 18], an estimator that is also known as system generalized method of moments (GMM). System GMM controls for the temporal dependence of the dependent variable by including one or more lags of the dependent variable as regressors in the panel regression equation. The ArellanoBover/Blundell-Bond estimator is suitable for the present study given that: 1) we collected a short panel dataset (many panels and few periods); 2) independent variables in our research model may not be strictly exogenous; 3) fixed-effects models were chosen to control for unobserved heterogeneity; and 4) heteroscedasticity and autocorrelation potentially occur within individuals [103]. The issue of potential endogeneity in our social support exchange models may lead to biased estimates due to spurious association or reverse causality. System GMM treats endogenous regressors by generating GMM-style internal instruments from the panel itself. Many prior studies in economics and information systems have applied this approach to solve the potential endogeneity and autocorrelation problems present in the current study [e.g., 5, 15, 83, 117, 135].
We first-differenced variables in the above dynamic panel models:
?SSEit ¼ ?SSEit1?1 þ?SSCit?þ?Wit?þ?montht þ ??it
where the first difference of social support exchange ?SSEit ¼ SSEit  SSEit1, and so forth. The first differencing eliminated the constant term and fixed effects from the equation, thus controlling for unobserved individual heterogeneity [28].
  Linear fixed-effects panel regression models were used to test the effects of social support exchange on health knowledge and attitude. The models were specified as:
HLit ¼ ?þ SSEit1?þ Wit?þ montht þ ?i þ?it
HAVit ¼ ?þ SSEit1?þ Wit?þ montht þ ?i þ?it
where HLit denotes health literacy of participant i at month t; HAVit represents health attitude valence; SSEit1 includes social support exchange variables at month t  1; Wit represents control variables; montht is a set of monthly dummies; ?i indicates individual heterogeneity; ?, ?, and ? are model parameters to estimate; and ?it is the error term. We lagged social support exchange variables by one month with two considerations: 1) the promoting effects of social support exchange on health literacy and attitude valence may need some time for the online participants to fully absorb or internalize; and 2) there is potentially an issue of endogeneity resulting from reverse causality that higher levels of health literacy and attitude valence may lead to each participant’s social support exchange. We also conducted Wooldridge test [44, 138] for health knowledge and attitude panel models and failed to reject the null hypotheses that the two models have no first-order autocorrelation (p-values = 0.64 and 0.40 for health knowledge and health attitude valence respectively). Finally, Hausman’s [59] specification test on the full health knowledge and attitude models supports the choice of fixed-effects models (?2 = 131.77 and 337.16 for health literacy and health attitude valence, respectively, p-values < 0.001). We used robust standard errors clustered at individual level that have been proved to be robust to potential heteroscedasticity and autocorrelation in the data [137].
Results Effect of Structural Social Capital on Social Support Exchange

Dependent variables and degree centrality measures were log-transformed to mitigate their skewed distributions. Given small values of betweenness centrality in our large and sparse social networks, its parameter estimate could become extreme in magnitude. We standardized the betweenness centrality variable to make the coefficient estimate more interpretable. The variance inflation factors (VIFs) of network centrality measures and control variables ranged from 1.33 to 2.86 (average VIF = 1.98), indicating no serious multicollinearity issues among the regressors [43]. The estimation results of our system GMM dynamic panel models are summarized in Table 2. Columns 1-4 show model estimates for the effects of structural social capital (i.e., betweenness centrality) on informational support provisioning, informational support receipt, emotional support provisioning, and emotional support receipt respectively. Online Supplement Appendix H fully explicates the model estimation results.
  Robust standard errors are corrected by the Windmeijer [133] estimator. We used the Sargan test of over-identification restrictions to assess the validity of instruments. An insignificant Sargan statistic indicates that appropriate instruments were used in the estimation. We also tested the auto-correction of first-differenced error terms. As shown in Table 2, the first-order autocorrelation is statistically significant for all social support exchange models while the second-order autocorrelation is not. According to Arellano and Bond [6], failing to reject the null hypothesis of no serial correlation in the first-differenced errors at higher orders suggests that the model is properly specified. The Sargan test and autocorrelation test demonstrate the appropriateness of using the system GMM to obtain unbiased estimates.
  This study validates structural social capital as a key predictor of social support exchanged in OHCs. The results suggest that betweenness centrality is positively associated with the provisioning and receipt of informational as well as emotional support (p-values < 0.01). Since system GMM models do not report R2 type goodness-of-fit summary statistics, we calculated R2 of fixed-effects linear models with corresponding social support exchange variables as dependent variables. Overall, the explained variances of our linear social support exchange models are between 67.4 to 78.6 percent, exhibiting high levels of goodness-of-fit. Thus, Hypotheses 1a, 1b, 2a, and 2b are supported.



  The coefficients of betweenness centrality can be interpreted as semielasticities. As Table 2 shows, the coefficient estimate of the effect of betweenness on informational support provisioning is 0.298, which means that an increase in betweenness centrality by one standard deviation (which is approximately equivalent to 6,651 more times a participant resides on the shortest path between other two individuals in a network of 2,798 users with a maximum of 7,826,006 possible ties) would lead to a 29.8 percent increase in informational support provisioning, holding other factors constant. Similarly, a one standard deviation increase in betweenness centrality would be associated with an 18.0 percent increase in informational support receipt, a 28.3 percent increase in emotional support provisioning, and a 25.0 percent increase in emotional support receipt, ceteris paribus.
Effect of Social Support Exchange on Health Knowledge and Attitudes
The estimation results of fixed-effects panel models for health knowledge and attitude are summarized in Table 3 (and further details are available in Online Supplement Appendix I).
  In terms of the role of social support exchange in enhancing health knowledge and attitude, Hypotheses 3a and 3b suggest that each participant’s informational support provisioning and receipt both positively relate to her/his health literacy (HL). The results shown in column 1 of Table 3 suggest that both informational support provisioning and receipt are positively and significantly associated with health literacy (p-values < 0.01). Thus, Hypotheses 3a and 3b are supported. On average, a 100 percent increase in informational support provisioning would lead to the increase of health literacy by 1.032 units holding other factors constant. Similarly, we expect health literacy to increase by 0.569 units if we increase informational support receipt by 100 percent, controlling for other covariates. Providing informational support is found more helpful than receiving informational support to improve the focal participant’s health literacy (F = 2.21, p-value < 0.1). All explanatory variables including fixed effects explain 38.4 percent of the variance of health literacy, which we interpret as more than acceptable.
  Hypotheses 4a and 4b suggest that each participant’s emotional support provisioning and receipt both positively relate to health attitude valence. Column 2 of Table 3 shows that the coefficients of both emotional support provisioning and receipt variables are statistically significant (p-value < 0.01 and < 0.1, respectively), providing evidence that Hypotheses 4a and 4b are supported. On average, a 100 percent increase in emotional support provisioning would lead to the increase of health attitude valence by 0.040 units holding other factors constant. Similarly, we expect health attitude valence to increase by 0.012 units if we increase emotional support receipt by 100 percent, controlling for all other factors. Emotional support provisioning benefits online participants more in terms of improving the focal participant’s health attitude valence than does emotional support receipt (F = 5.25, p-value < 0.05). 38.0 percent of the variance of health attitude valence is explained by explanatory variables, including fixed effects.
Robustness Checks
We assessed the robustness and qualitative consistency of our findings by using alternative measures of dependent variables and estimation methods. In our main data analysis, health literacy is measured as the average count of UMLS terms used in informational support messages. Potentially, however, this definition of health literacy may not apply to online health communities where the length of online messages varies. To assess robustness, we replicated the health literacy model by using two alternative measures of health literacy: 1) the percentage of UMLS terms in informational support provision messages8; and 2) the average number of UMLS terms per sentence in informational support provision messages. The results of these robustness checks are highly consistent with our main analysis (more details are in Online Supplement Appendix J, Tables J1 and J2).
  The measurement of health attitude valence assumes that the positive and negative sentiment scores can be summed [110] and health attitude is expressed in all online messages. Thus, we also re-estimated the health attitude model by employing two alternative measures of health attitude valence: 1) dichotomized health attitude valence (HAV) using various cutoff values9; and 2) the average sentiment valence expressed in posts and emotional support replies. The results of robustness check are highly consistent with our main analysis (please refer to Online Supplement Appendix J, Tables J3 and J4).
  In the health knowledge and attitude models, social support exchange variables were lagged by one period to ensure inference of causality as proposed in our research model [83]. However, lagging these variables assumes that the promoting effects of social support exchange on health knowledge and attitude need time to develop. This may not be the case for some participants in the OHC who are actively involved in knowledge exchange and emotional interactions such that the promotion effects could be immediate. We conducted a robustness check by using the unlagged independent variables through the system GMM estimator [7, 18] that allows for a robust treatment of endogeneity. With the similar notations as in the linear fixed-effects health knowledge and attitude models, the dynamic panel models were specified as:
 Most social science models are ultimately non-recursive and causality may flow in both directions [5, 16]. In the aforementioned models, causality may run from social support exchange to health literacy and attitude or from health literacy and attitude to social support exchange. Thus, the social support exchange variables at the right-hand side are assumed to be endogenous. System GMM treats endogenous regressors by using lagged values of the endogenous variables as instruments, thus helping to validate the robustness of our health knowledge and attitude models.
  System GMM estimation of health literacy and attitude models shows that all coefficient estimates of interest retain the same direction and significance as the fixed-effects linear models, except for the effect of informational receipt on health literacy that is found insignificant (details are available in Online Supplement Appendix J, Table J5). This suggests that the promoting effect of informational support receipt requires time for the focal participant to fully absorb the content received, while informational support provisioning and emotional support exchange can immediately improve the participant’s health knowledge and attitude.
  Given that the social support exchange variables represent the count of social support messages received or contributed by a participant in a given month, Poisson and negative binomial models are natural choice as these estimation methods treat nonlinear panel data via count distributions [27]. Thus, we applied fixed-effects negative binomial models to test the robustness of the results of our social support exchange system GMM estimation. All coefficient estimates of interest retain the same direction and significance under the fixed-effects negative binomial panel model specifications, suggesting that the effects of structural social capital on provisioning and receipt of social support are robust and economically significant (see Online Supplement Appendix J, Table J6 for details).
Discussion

Drawing from the theoretical tenets of structural social capital [1, 2, 80, 86, 89], social support exchange [60, 86, 89, 115], and health knowledge (literacy) and attitude development [33, 86], this study has conceptualized and empirically tested the effect of structural social capital within an OHC on informational and emotional social support exchanges, and the impact of such social support exchange on the health knowledge and attitude valence of OHC participants. Furthermore, we have focused on the context of chronic disease, which by its nature, typically requires longer term relationships and interactions to effectively deal with ongoing causes and effects. Users of chronic disease-focused OHCs are in the vast majority of cases sufferers themselves. If we can corroborate their intuition that these virtual community sites will encourage them to persevere in confronting their illness, then the scientific confirmation that OHC participation works is indeed important. Our primary contribution here is that participation improves both the health literacy and the attitudes toward health. No other study, to our knowledge, has combined these elements in the same analysis. This is an important scientific point because it is possible that there would be a suppression effect of one over the other and the outcomes might not have been this clear. Our crystal-clear findings allow us to be fairly confident (within the bounds of statistical and research design uncertainties) that OHC users will truly benefit. This is important, both socially and scientifically. We also contribute a novel combination of machine learning, social network analysis, and econometric methods that permits analyses of user-generated trace data and associated impacts. We find that our methods are robust with a large dataset requiring an automated approach to textual analysis. Our findings provide impetus for future research and practice on prosocial and learning behaviors related to OHC participation.
Implications for Research
Our research offers a model that comprehensively extends and builds upon prior OHC theoretical research. The nuances of the relationships between structural social capital, informational and emotional support exchange, and the effect of OHC social support exchange on health knowledge and attitude formation have been under-studied prior to this study. Thus, we integrate these concepts by considering structural social capital to be an antecedent to informational and emotional social support exchange and, importantly, also model the effect of social support exchange on health knowledge and attitude creation. With respect to health care, an essential mechanism for lowering chronic disease incidence is the self-management of care and the connection of patients to community resources. What happens between doctor’s office visits is often as or more important than what happens during them [19, 121]. Thus, we evaluate the effects on health knowledge and attitude-derived dependent variables that, when enhanced, contribute to a participant’s motivation and ability to self-manage health.
  Our social network and econometric analyses reveal structural social capital to be a significant antecedent to social support exchange and, interestingly, infer that structural social capital (i.e., for which betweenness is a proxy) is essential to enhancing both informational and emotional social support exchange [81, 91, 100]. We also find informational support provisioning and receipt can significantly increase health literacy, suggesting that the use of a technological mechanism to exchange health information enhances cognitive health-related knowledge. This could suggest that concepts such as “learning through teaching” [35] (or provisioning, in our terminology), which typically requires higher level cognitive processes than simply reading through online information search, also apply to online media. Thus, this study provides support for leveraging peer-to-peer technological mechanisms in enhancing individual-level health knowledge. Emotional support provisioning and receipt are found to significantly, albeit modestly, impact the non-cognitive health attitude, a finding that supports the use of a technological mechanism for attitude enhancement; such encouragement of a larger number of postings can thus increase health self-management confidence and motivation.
  Furthermore, we find that emotional support provisioning has a stronger effect than emotional support receipt on each participant’s health attitude valence. Indeed, informational support provisioning is more helpful than informational support receipt in boosting health literacy. These findings, interestingly, suggest that the provisioning of social support within OHCs is an essential predictor of one’s own health literacy and attitude improvement.
  Thus, while OHCs act as technological mechanisms for overcoming many of the limitations of physical networks, particularly in specialized health care fields, the OHC alone may not lead to the comprehensive exchanges of both informational and emotional support sought for when the participants themselves are not willing to actively develop the structural social capital within the OHC itself. This suggests that participants need to prioritize social capital formation within an OHC, particularly when initially participating. This finding is consistent with findings in psychology and sociology regarding the beneficial motivations associated with volunteering [e.g., 31] and engaging in prosocial behavior [e.g., 95], but, to this point, have not been thoroughly evaluated with respect to IS enabled mechanisms. In particular, our findings suggest that social support may be a mutually reinforcing mechanism whereby information provisioning is incentivized by the desire to learn more about a condition and to give back to the community by helping others to improve their knowledge and attitudes. Thus, while we measured provisioning, it is highly likely that provisioning requires research and/or consolidation of knowledge, which then must be manifested in writing a response, which results in reinforcement of one’s own knowledge. The learning literature has suggested that simply writing out ideas and concepts can help one to remember such concepts and, interestingly, returning to concepts after some time, even if some of the knowledge has been forgotten, helps to move information from short-term to long-term memory [23]. Thus, the underlying mechanism in this case may be that recall and application to new personal situations, especially over time, may be reinforcing one’s own knowledge. This is potentially a fruitful area of future research, as motivations for such behaviors and how they positively impact knowledge and attitudes could be unpacked and assessed in more detail.
  Last, the present study employs and validates various text mining techniques for automatic content analysis of digital trace data in online communities. Our analytical approaches can be applied by researchers to similar settings to evaluate the social interaction efficacy and associated outcomes. The natural language processing techniques and machine learning approaches used in classifying social support expressed in short messages have been shown to be effective in assessing the content-based components in a dataset that would be nearly impossible and time consuming to process manually. These computational methods could be applied to similar settings or to other types of communities.
Implications for Practice
Given the findings that structural social capital within the OHC itself is a significant antecedent to social support exchange and that provisioning of both types of support within an OHC is essential for health literacy and health attitude valence improvement, a key practical question relates to how OHCs can facilitate and encourage social capital building and social support provisioning. Furthermore, participants themselves are likely to derive more value from involving in OHCs if they understand that social capital development and actively exchanging are important for their own health knowledge and attitude development.
  We believe that OHCs can potentially use our theoretical and empirical findings to improve their effectiveness by helping participants understand that: 1) active participation will likely enhance the value they receive, and 2) the value they receive is conditional on the ways in which they participate. For instance, high status users can be given more prominence in the online interaction through gamification designs such as leaderboard or highlighted online rankings; this effect will subsequently increase the interest of all participants in the ongoing discussion and increase the value of the website to users. Additionally, the OHC may need to initially act as an educational platform for explaining the potential costs and benefits of participating as well as how the nature of participation is likely to lead to better outcomes. Even more so, the OHC could develop sophisticated features that reduce the efforts in participating and potential motivational or ability-related barriers. It can, for instance, provide recommendations for how to effectively contribute to the online discussions of those participants to whom they are most closely related in a similar interest group of social support exchange or at a similar level of motivation or ability. Further, this matching of participant willingness and ability to develop social capital within the OHC can be used to better disseminate educational information and to promote more meaningful and effective online interactions. Other research issues remain, such as collecting responses in a meaningful way, leveraging such information toward the tailoring of affordances to participant needs, and modifying the website as participant motivation and abilities change. Further research can tease out the answers to such questions.
Limitations and Future Research
Our data were collected from an OHC hosted in the US, which, admittedly, has a very high percentage of Internet users who look online for health information and support. The findings may not apply to other cultures that do not as actively participate in such online discussions. Future research can extend the current study by applying it to other countries and cultural backgrounds.
  This study focuses on individual characteristics of social interactions in an OHC to build the general framework of the predictors of social support exchange as well as its role in health knowledge and attitude development. As an extension of the current research, we view the interaction between participant goals and OHC affordances tailored toward such goals (and changes to those goals) as particularly beneficial to the future of the relationship between OHC use and health knowledge and attitude development. Specifically, the active roles of both the IS artifact itself (the OHC) and the participant likely need to both come together to further enhance health knowledge and attitude outcomes. Indeed, we suggest that future studies can take into account the collective social capital at the community level [143] to further explore the social support exchange in online communities.
  Furthermore, we do not know the extent of each participant’s knowledge acquired or exchanged outside of the OHC mechanism and we do not know if the language that the participant is applying within the OHC is intentionally limited in scope, perhaps to appeal to a less knowledgeable audience. Therefore, future research could consider the interaction between knowledge and attitudes as impacted by OHCs along with impacts from other, perhaps non-virtual sources, as well as the intentions of the participant when communicating within an OHC.
  In addition, an opportunity for future research is to use field studies or experimental designs to investigate the behavioral and psychological aspects of social support exchange that can triangulate our findings or better explain the roles of various kinds of social support exchange in promoting individual health knowledge and attitudes. Qualitative studies of online participants, such as netnographic studies [128], could also be useful.
Conclusion

We sought to extend current understandings of structural social capital, social support exchange, and health knowledge and attitude development in the context of OHCs. The present study is novel and fills gaps in the theoretical literature by: 1) simultaneously studying causal paths from social exchange to health literacy and attitudes; 2) integrating these linkages into a larger model that incorporates social structural capital; and 3) finding unexpectedly strong relationships between providing social support (as opposed to only receiving social support) and health knowledge and positive attitude development. We contribute nuanced findings that seek to advance theory and practice for leveraging digital resources for health literacy and attitude improvements.
