ABSTRACT: Online policy deliberation forums (OPDFs) have been increasingly initiated by governments to allow citizens to provide their input and discuss policy issues. Yet, failure to garner participation, in terms of both quantity and quality, prevents the realization of their benefits. In this regard, prior research has suggested different antecedents for the quantity and quality of participation in online forums, but without systematically considering their differences. To address this research gap, in this study we develop a theoretical model to explain the antecedents of quantity and quality of OPDF participation and test the model using a survey and content analysis of forum logs. The results indicate that quantity of participation is enhanced by the information-technology-enabled resource factor of communality but negatively influenced by collective incentives. In contrast, the antecedents of the quality of participation include both motivational and resource factors. Furthermore, communality accentuates the perceived collective incentives and persuasion benefit of participation. This study contributes to the research by proposing and testing a theoretical model that explains the different antecedents of the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs. More broadly, the findings inform research and practice on how outcomes of web-enabled cocreation, such as those generated through OPDF participation, can be evaluated and enhanced in these online communities.


Just as information technology (IT) has transformed various aspects of commerce and enabled value cocreation by consumers [90, 128], it has changed public administration in many ways, including enabling citizens to contribute toward the cocreation of better public policies [66]. This potential of the Internet for public participation is increasingly being recognized [56, 59]. For instance, on his first day in office in January 2009, President Obama issued a call for increased openness in government and proposed the use of the Internet for public engagement as a key priority [59, 94]. In the United Kingdom, a report by Ofcom highlighted the Internet as an important channel for citizen participation, indicating that 13 percent of the general population currently use it for this purpose.1 As a result, online policy deliberation forums (OPDFs) are emerging as a key mechanism for governments to utilize the Internet to engage citizens in policy deliberation [59, 88]. Instances of these forums can be found globally, for example, Estonia’s Osalusveeb (www.osale. ee), Israel’s SHIL (shil.info), Singapore’s REACH (www.reach.gov.sg), and Australia’s Youth Forum (www.youth.gov.au/sites/youth/ayf/). In OPDFs, typically the public agency concerned is responsible for preparing and posting the policy issue to be deliberated. Citizens are then invited to provide input on the issue and may interact with one another to debate and exchange views during the process. At the end of the policy deliberation exercise, the public agency typically summarizes the inputs from citizens and explains how they contributed to policy shaping [71].
  The importance of obtaining citizens’ input for public governance is well recognized [81]. Particularly, citizen participation in OPDFs promotes the exchange of views on policy issues and allows people to build on one another’s ideas as well as scrutinize the rationale behind the ideas [22, 56]. This can help stimulate policy deliberation, contribute to the formulation of more inclusive policies and more effective public programs, and increase citizens’ trust in government [78]. However, the realization of these benefits is contingent on the quantity and quality of participation in the OPDF, among other factors [45]. In OPDFs, having a higher quantity of inputs is desirable because this implies a higher likelihood of generating a variety of ideas [96] for the formulation of more inclusive policies [71]. Moreover, a high volume of participation may serve to attract more people to the forum and create a self-sustaining force for driving participation [74]. A higher quality of inputs is also important, however, because well-reasoned inputs can contribute to more thoughtful deliberation and better policy formulation [23].
  Thus, both quantity and quality of participation are vital to ensure that the benefits of OPDFs can be realized. Yet, studies have often reported less than satisfactory participation in these forums [54, 81]. For instance, the quantity of inputs received in a forum set up for the discussion of a local UK e-government project was described as “a real disappointment” [81, p. 502]. Instances of low-quality participation have also been observed, for example, in a forum set up by French municipal authorities to engage citizens in city planning [125]. Failure to obtain greater and better-quality participation can not only defeat the purpose of these forums but also lead to citizens’ dismissing them as futile.
  In spite of the foregoing pragmatic concerns regarding OPDFs, there remains a lack of research examining how quantity and quality of participation can be enhanced. The focus of the majority of prior studies was limited to either quantity or quality of participation (e.g., [1, 11, 42, 64]), which disallows differences in their antecedents to be systematically compared. Among those studies that considered both participation quantity and quality [14, 87, 116, 122], differences in their antecedents were not hypothesized a priori. Despite these studies’ useful insights into what drives the two participation aspects (a fuller discussion is provided in the next section under “Online Participation Outcomes: Quantity and Quality”), a theory-grounded approach for comparing and modeling the differences can contribute to a better understanding of this issue.
  Therefore, we seek to address the following research questions: “What drives individuals’ quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs?” “What are the differences in their antecedents?” To address these questions, we built on public administration and information systems (IS) theories to develop a research model to explain the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs. Due to the nature of participation in OPDFs, which involves citizens’ engaging in policy deliberation, we drew from public administration theories that explicate motivational and resource factors for public participation [101]. However, these theories were formulated to explain offline participation, for example, in political activities, and hence do not consider the role of IT in enhancing participation. Thus, we also referred to previous research that examines the role of IT in facilitating collective action [29] to build our model. The research model was tested through the combination of a survey and content analysis of the forum log data obtained from a nationwide OPDF. The survey measured the OPDF members’ perceptions of antecedents such as motivations, and content analysis of the forum logs was performed to assess the level of members’ participation quantity and quality.
  The findings from this study make several contributions. First, this research integrates elements from public participation theories and IT-enabled public goods literature in a complementary manner to build a theoretical model of participation, thereby contributing to a more comprehensive understanding of the two fundamental outcomes (quantity and quality) of online participation. Second, the theoretical model hypothesizes and compares the differences in the antecedents of quantity and quality of participation so that they can be simultaneously enhanced. This is consistent with previous research [27] suggesting that the antecedents will vary depending on the participation outcome of interest. Also, the study uses objective measures to assess the dependent variables, which is less subject to bias [2].
  Third, this study extends the investigation of technology-mediated participation to the context of OPDFs that have so far received little research attention. Because online forums are not monolithic and differ by the purpose and context in which they operate [72, 91], the findings obtained from one kind of online forum may not be applicable to another. Thus, the examination of OPDFs can broaden our knowledge of the factors influencing participation in different kinds of online forums. Overall, our findings show that quantity of participation is primarily enhanced by IT-enabled communality, but negatively impacted by collective incentives. In contrast, the antecedents of participation quality include both motivational and resource factors, such as collective incentives, persuasion benefit, political efficacy, and civic skills. Furthermore, communality accentuates the perceived collective incentives and persuasion benefit of OPDF participation. More broadly, this research also relates to the recent literature on online cocreation of value by consumers [90, 128]. Our findings contribute to this research stream by addressing an important issue in this area [128], that is, how the quantity and quality of content cocreated by citizens (public policy inputs in OPDFs) can be better evaluated and enhanced.
  In the next section, we discuss the conceptual background that forms the basis for our hypotheses development.
Conceptual Background

In this section, we first discuss the similarities and differences between OPDFs and other online forums, with the differences suggesting the need to study OPDFs in their own right. We then review prior studies on quantity and quality of participation in online forums to show the gap in the literature that serves as a motivation for our research. The context of OPDFs then leads us to identify and explore the relevant public participation theories and IT-enabled public goods literature that are used to derive our theoretical model of OPDF participation.
  OPDF participation produces outcomes similar to as well as outcomes different from those generated in other technology-mediated participation contexts such as forums for knowledge sharing [5, 68, 116], emotional support [60, 68], and product consumption and review [30, 84, 123] and the emerging citizen science projects (in which citizens voluntarily participate in research projects for scientific investigation) [80, 123]. As with these other participation contexts, content contribution in OPDFs (i.e., providing policy suggestions) involves the production of public goods [29, 31] —individuals voluntarily contribute their views, knowledge, or skills even when they do not know one another [19]. They seldom receive tangible monetary compensation for participation [87]. Yet, their contribution to the forums leads to the creation of public goods (e.g., the formulation of more inclusive policy solutions in OPDFs) that can be enjoyed by all, including those who do not participate; that is, the public goods are nonexcludable. Furthermore, any person’s consumption of the public goods (e.g., enjoying the benefits from the resulting policy solutions) does not reduce its availability or utility to others; that is, recipients of the benefits are nonrivalrous [74].
  Despite the similarities, there are important differences between OPDFs and other online forums that are worth noting. Specifically, the nature of participation in OPDFs is inherently political, in that citizens participate in these forums to communicate their views about a policy issue to policymakers as well as to other citizens. Indeed, the aim to influence policy has often led to intense debates among citizens holding different positions in these forums [52, 83]. For instance, by tracking eight political newsgroups with more than 16,000 messages, Kelly et al. [52] found that most participants in these forums have clear political stances on an issue and interact mainly with those holding different viewpoints. This is in contrast to other forums for knowledge or information sharing, in which participants often form echo chambers of the like-minded [124] and do not usually want to persuade others [52, 69, 80]. Previous research [65] has also noted that citizens participate in political activities in order to access opportunities for their own political career advancement, for example, by contesting an office of local authority.
  Moreover, unlike the case in many other forums in which feedback from organizations on participants’ inputs is minimal, if not absent altogether [87], citizens participating in OPDFs expect policy makers to respond to their policy input [18]. It is considered a desirable practice at the end of a policy deliberation exercise for the host public agency to consolidate participants’ inputs and explain how the inputs have been accounted for in the final policy [120]. These differences of OPDFs from other forums imply that understanding participation in these forums could be advanced by theories that are specifically developed to explain citizen participation. Before identifying these theories, we first review studies on quantity and quality of participation in online forums to trace the gap in the literature that serves as a motivation for our work.
Online Participation Outcomes: Quantity and Quality
In this study, quantity and quality of participation serve as the dependent variables, which are two salient participation outcomes in OPDFs. Prior studies have examined the quantity and quality of participation in different kinds of online forums, for example, those for knowledge sharing [14, 116], interest- or hobby-based discussion [68], emotional support [68], and learning [89], but not for OPDFs. Because online forums are not monolithic [72, 91], the findings obtained from these other contexts may not necessarily be applicable to OPDFs [72]. Thus, it is important to research what motivates participation quantity and quality specifically in OPDFs [56, 59].
  Moreover, most previous studies have examined the quantity or the quality of participation, but not both (e.g., [1, 42, 64]). For instance, Harper et al. [42] found that in online movie recommendation communities, the quantity of participation (in terms of number of movies rated) could be increased by showing individuals how their participation quantity compared to others’. Ling et al. [64] showed that individuals will contribute more if they believe their contributions are unique. Focusing on participation quality, Arazy et al. [1] observed that the quality of content in Wikipedia communities can be improved when members’ knowledge and role compositions are more diverse and when there is a lower level of task conflict. These studies provide valuable insights into what might influence quantity or quality of participation, but it is not clear whether the factors found to affect quantity are applicable to quality, and vice versa. Simultaneous examination of participation quantity and quality would allow similarities and differences in their antecedents to be compared and better understood [121].
  Also, some previous studies have employed perceptual or self-reported measures to assess participation (e.g., [14, 63]), which could be more susceptible to social desirability bias than objective data such as forum logs [2]. Nonetheless, a few studies have examined both the quantity and quality of participation without relying on individuals’ self-evaluation in measuring the two constructs (see [87, 116, 122]). Specifically, these studies employed forum log data to derive the quantity of participation by counting the number of participants’ inputs, and they measured the quality of participation by performing content analysis on the participants’ inputs or by relying on other participants’ rating of the inputs.
  Yet, the limited number of studies that have simultaneously investigated quantity and quality of participation (for a summary, refer to the online appendices2) did not hypothesize differences in their antecedents a priori. Rather, the differences were observed post hoc without being theoretically proposed—despite suggestions of possible differences in their antecedents from prior studies, such as Thorn and Connolly [107], who noted that quantity but not quality of participation may be enhanced with privatized benefits in discretionary databases. Also, the findings from extant studies are sometimes contradictory, and it is not clear why the differences exist. For instance, in the context of online consumer review forums, Peddibhotla and Subramani showed that quantity of participation is positively related to utilitarian and self-expression motives that are self-oriented, but negatively related to socially oriented affiliation desire. In contrast, quality of participation is positively related to socially oriented benefits of altruism and reciprocity, but negatively related to self-oriented benefits of personal development [87]. The study suggests that socially oriented benefits may be more important for the quality of participation, whereas self-oriented benefits are more important for the quantity of participation, although this departs from some previous findings.
  For example, Wasko and Faraj [116] also found that in knowledge-sharing forums, the quantity of participation is driven mainly by self-oriented benefits (e.g., reputation) but is negatively related to the socially oriented desire to reciprocate to others. However, they found that the quality of participation (in terms of the helpfulness of knowledge contributions) is positively affected by both the socially oriented benefit of helping others and the self-oriented reputation benefit. Another study in the context of online technical support forums found no effect of the socially oriented benefit of reciprocity on either quantity or quality of participation [122]. Other antecedents of participation studied in [122] include commitment to the community (found to be significant for both quantity and quality of participation) and commitment to the host firm (found to have a negative effect on quality of participation but no effect on quantity). A possible reason for the inconsistent findings could be the differences in the online forums investigated in these studies. A better understanding about the antecedents of the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs may thus require careful consideration of the particular characteristics of OPDFs and identification of the relevant theories to explain them, as discussed next.
Public Participation Theories Employed
The topic of citizen participation has a long tradition in public administration research [78], which has given rise to a number of theories of individuals’ participation antecedents from the rational choice and socioeconomic perspectives. Among them, the general incentives model [100, 101] and the civic voluntarism model [114] have been recognized as useful theories to explain individuals’ participation [62, 86]. Therefore, in our study we integrate these two models in a complementary manner to derive individuals’ antecedents of OPDF participation.
  The general incentives model [104, 101] stems from but extends the rational choice perspective of participation. The rational choice perspective views citizen participation as a rational activity in which the aim is to maximize the benefits of participation while minimizing the costs (e.g., [36, 82]). A common assumption underlying this perspective is that individuals are by nature economically rational actors who base their decision to participate on cost-benefit calculations [119]. This line of theory has been criticized for being unable to explain situations in which individuals participate despite low tangible benefits [119]. For instance, in an election involving many voters, the influence that an individual has on the outcome, and thus the potential benefit, is extremely small. Yet, we do see people participating in elections. As this issue arises from a narrow conceptualization of participation benefits, this prompted Seyd and Whiteley [100] to develop the general incentives model to address the limitation.
  The general incentives model proposes a comprehensive set of motivational factors that include not only self-oriented rational choice motivations but also socially oriented motivations [100, 101]. These motivational factors consist of collective, selective, social-norms-derived, group, and expressive incentives. Collective incentives are socially oriented benefits available for everyone to enjoy regardless of whether one participates. For instance, through the participation of some citizens in an OPDF, a tax reduction plan may be formulated that is beneficial to the entire community. This is in contrast to selective incentives, which are restricted to those who have participated in the OPDF. Particularly, it has been noted that the production of public goods necessitates the provision of selective incentives; else people may free ride [82]. Selective incentives are privatized outcomes from participation that fulfill individuals’ self-interest. For example, one such incentive for public participation is the opportunity to advance the participant’s political career [101, 114]. Social-norms-derived incentives refer to the motivation to conform to others’ influence to participate, for example, civic esteem stemming from accepting a request to join a petition. Group and expressive incentives are related to individuals’ confidence in and affection toward a political group, for example, a political party.3
  Another popular public participation theory is the civic voluntarism model [114], which has its roots in the socioeconomic perspective. In contrast to the rational choice perspective of cost-benefit calculation, the socioeconomic perspective [113] attempts to explain public participation in terms of an individual’s socioeconomic characteristics, such as age, education, and income. Initially, it was proposed that individuals who are older, better educated, and wealthier are more likely to participate because their socioeconomic advantages create favorable attitudes toward participation [113]. However, some studies have shown that higher age and educational level do not necessarily lead to increased participation (e.g., [32, 67]). Thus, subsequent research has questioned the initial proposition and sought to address the discrepancies about the effects of socioeconomic factors, leading to the formulation of the civic voluntarism model [114].
  Based on a two-stage field study that combined telephone and in-person interviews with a large sample of more than 15,000 respondents across the United States, Verba et al. [114] proposed the civic voluntarism model. According to the model, the reasons behind people’s decision regarding public participation or nonparticipation can be categorized into three types of factors: resources, motivations, and mobilization. Resources refer to what an individual possesses that may facilitate the individual’s participation, such as time, money, or civic skills, that is, organization and communication abilities to express one’s views [114]. These factors are expected to bridge individuals’ socioeconomic characteristics and their participation. In other words, individuals with superior socioeconomic characteristics are more likely to participate because they possess the resources to do so. However, apart from resources, individuals also require motivations and mobilization to participate. Motivations consist of benefits for individuals and groups as well as a sense of political efficacy [114], which refers to an individual’s belief that “political change is possible, and that the individual citizen can play a part in bringing about this change” [9, p. 187]. Mobilization refers to the influence on an individual from surrounding people that can trigger the individual’s participation. It is similar to the concept of social-norms-derived incentives outlined in the general incentives model. These three types of factors form the theoretical framework of the civic voluntarism model.4
Integrating the Two Models to Derive Individuals’ Participation Antecedents
Examining the general incentives and civic voluntarism models described in the previous section reveals the potential for integrating these two perspectives to develop a more comprehensive model of participation. The general incentives model highlights both self-oriented and socially oriented motivations that could drive participation. The civic voluntarism model expands the antecedents of participation beyond motivations to include resource factors5 but does not explicate the specific participation motivations as the general incentives model does. Thus, we consider motivational and resource factors as participation antecedents based on the civic voluntarism model and make use of the general incentives model to derive the specific motivations that might drive participation.6
  Of the motivational factors outlined in the general incentives model, we consider collective incentives and selective incentives to be relevant for OPDF participation. Group and expressive incentives are considered less relevant for our research context as OPDFs are typically open platforms that aim to reach the entire population and are not restricted to citizens belonging to a political group or organization. Socialnorms-derived incentives are also excluded from our research model, because they serve to motivate potential participants [114], who are not the target subjects of this study, given that they have not participated. Previous research has also noted that social norms become less salient in determining subsequent behavior after an individual has already engaged in the behavior [49]. In addition to these motivational factors, both the civic voluntarism model and the general incentives model highlight political efficacy as a relevant motivation determining public participation [9, 101, 114]. Political efficacy refers to an individual’s perception that political change is possible and that the individual citizen can play a part in bringing about the change [9, 79].
  As discussed, apart from motivational factors, the civic voluntarism model also highlights the need to consider resources that can facilitate individuals’ participation. In OPDFs, the contribution of inputs requires individuals to articulate and communicate their views. Specifically, participation may be less daunting if individuals possess the organizational and communication abilities to express their views effectively, that is, civic skills [114]. Hence, we include civic skills as an antecedent of participation in our research model.7
  Although the civic voluntarism model emphasizes resources as an important constituent of participation antecedents, the kinds of resource factors considered in the model, for example, civic skills, are limited to those possessed by an individual.
Yet, external resources in the online environment may also play a vital role in facilitating participation. Particularly, IT-related resources may be salient in online contexts such as OPDFs that afford large-scale participation. In a discussion on the logic of public goods production, Olson [82] noted that large groups face relatively high costs when attempting to organize themselves for collective action, which necessitates the availability of appropriate external resources that can facilitate participation. Thus, we next identify the IT-related resources afforded by an online forum such as an OPDF that could support participation.
Influence of IT-Enabled Resources on Participation
Prior research has examined how IT may facilitate collective action for the production of public goods, for example, through online forum systems [29, 122]. Based on the public goods perspective [98], Fulk et al. [29] proposed two types of resources afforded by IT that can facilitate participation in collective action, that is, connectivity and communality.
  Connectivity refers to the ease of reaching others who share common goals or interests [29], whereas communality refers to the ease of accessing a common pool of information to perform generalized and productive exchanges [29, 76]. Both resources can be enabled by IT, such as an online forum system. Generalized exchanges are patterns of social exchange wherein an individual contributes to and receives resources from different people. In productive exchanges, information is assembled and analyzed to create something new, such as the formulation of a better solution based on different ideas [29]. An online forum provides a platform for participants to communicate with one another through features for posting and replying to messages while collectively deliberating a policy issue, which allows for connectivity. Such a forum also provides a repository that stores previous messages to facilitate participants’ exchanges of ideas for deliberation, which contributes to communality. The two IT-related factors may act as resources that alleviate the challenges of large-scale participation for collective action [82], as has been observed previously for interorganizational systems [76]. Specifically, these factors can facilitate collective participation in OPDFs by making it easier for individuals to connect with others who share similar interests or goals (connectivity) and to access relevant information for policy deliberation (communality).
  Based on the preceding discussions, we derive the following participation antecedents: (1) motivational factors of collective incentives, selective incentives, and political efficacy; and (2) resource factors of civic skills possessed by an individual, along with connectivity and communality afforded by the IT-based forum system.
Research Model and Hypotheses

By integrating the participation antecedents derived from the citizen participation theories and the IT-based forum system, we develop our research model for

Figure 1. Research Model for Individuals’ Participation Quantity and Quality in an OPDF
individuals’ quantity and quality of participation in an OPDF (see Figure 1). To assess the quantity of participation, we follow the approach commonly employed in previous research, which counts the number of postings contributed by each participant (e.g., [116, 122]). The conceptualization of the quality of participation, however, is context dependent, that is, it is based on the objective of the forum under study. For instance, in the context of knowledge-sharing (advice) forums, in which value is manifested through the utility of the knowledge contribution to others, Wasko and Faraj [116] conceptualized quality of participation as the helpfulness of the knowledge contribution. In OPDFs, the key objective is to gather citizens’ inputs to deliberate on policy issues so that inclusive and well-considered policies can be formulated [22, 88]. Deliberation is a process of “weighing carefully both the consequences of various options for action and the views of others” [75, p. 10]. Habermas [39], in his seminal work on the public sphere, contended that the ideal process for deliberation must take the form of a rational-critical debate, that is, a process of giving and justifying the validity claims of reasons. Such a process requires participants to present their views based on reasoned arguments that contribute to enhanced discussions. Therefore, in this study we conceptualize the quality of participation in OPDFs as the extent to which individuals provide arguments that are well reasoned, that is, quality is determined by the level of argumentation of the messages posted by the individual, as in previous related work [47, 103]. Next, we hypothesize the effects of the different antecedents on the dependent variables.
Collective Incentives
Collective incentives are those benefits that can be enjoyed by all members of a collective (in this case, the OPDF) regardless of whether they participate [101]. These benefits are related to the well-being of the collective, which can occur in the form of better policies resulting from the participation of some (not necessarily all) members of the collective. We expect collective incentives to have a negative impact on the quantity of participation (number of postings) and to have a positive effect on the quality of participation (level of argumentation) in OPDFs.
  Previous researchers have observed that individuals tend to reduce their number of postings when they are concerned about social or collective benefits [87]. When an individual believes that participation will serve collective interests, the individual may be more thoughtful while posting on the forum. Specifically, the individual may refrain from posting excessive messages that could result in confusion or distraction [91], for example, messages containing repeated ideas or those without a clear purpose. When a forum is populated with such messages, it can increase the information-processing burden on participants [38] and impede the attainment of the collective goals of policy deliberation.
  In contrast, collective or social benefits have been found effective in promoting the quality of contributions such as consumer reviews [87] and open source software codes [43]. In OPDFs, when individuals are concerned about attaining benefits for the collective through participation, they may be more willing to put in effort to develop well-reasoned arguments that can contribute to better policy deliberation. Hence, we hypothesize:
Hypothesis 1a: Collective incentives have a negative effect on individuals’ quantity of participation in an OPDF.
Hypothesis 1b: Collective incentives have a positive effect on individuals’ quality of participation in an OPDF.
Selective Incentives
Selective incentives are benefits which only those who have participated in the forum can enjoy. They capture the privatized outcomes accruing from a particular participation context [101]. Such incentives are related to individuals’ self-interest and fulfillment of personal motives. A selective incentive for public participation is the furthering of one’s political career [101]. In the specific context of OPDFs [52], participants may deliberate a policy with the motive of persuading others to adopt their own policy position. Thus, persuasion benefit is another selective incentive that could be relevant for participation in OPDFs.
Political Career Benefit
The desire to further one’s political career parallels the desire for organizational career advancement in organization-sponsored communities [115]. In the context of citizen participation, it has been observed that people participate in civic and political activities—for example, campaigning, lobbying, engaging in community efforts—to avail themselves of opportunities for a more active political role [101]. For instance, a participant may aspire to become a grassroots leader in the local community or hope to establish connections with political figures that can help the participant enter politics. Carrying the logic forward, in an OPDF, contributors may participate with the desire to become a grassroots leader or spokesperson of the community. This belief (that this desire can be fulfilled through participation) can drive individuals to post more messages in order to enhance their visibility, or to signal their ambition for a political career.
  Although the belief in political career advancement through OPDF participation is expected to increase an individual’s quantity of participation, the perceived benefit is expected to have a negative impact on the individual’s quality of participation. Previous researchers have found that individuals who focus on private, self-oriented benefits, for example, a political career benefit, pay less attention to making their contributions useful [87]. The selfish nature of such benefits may prevent individuals from providing high-quality contributions for the welfare of the community, because doing so requires additional mental effort and resources. Thus, we hypothesize:
Hypothesis 2a: Political career benefit has a positive effect on individuals’ quantity of participation in an OPDF.
Hypothesis 2b: Political career benefit has a negative effect on individuals’ quality of participation in an OPDF.
Persuasion Benefit
In OPDFs, it is common for participants holding different views or positions to engage in debates to deliberate a policy issue [52, 83]. Results of previous research suggest that when people encounter others who hold different views, they may want to persuade the others to adopt their own views [61]. To persuade others successfully, individuals can seek out and add information to substantiate their arguments, resulting in higher quality and more convincing argumentation [85]. Indeed to argue is a means of persuasion [6, 10]. Although the general prediction in some previous work is that self-oriented benefits may undermine the quality of participation [87], this is not expected to be applicable to the persuasion benefit in OPDFs, because quality of argumentation is central to persuading others [4].
  We do not, however, expect persuasion benefit to affect an individual’s quantity of participation. Previous researchers have noted that a high volume of messages may not facilitate persuasion [40]. Consistent with this position are suggestions that attempting to persuade others through repeating messages multiple times could invite counterarguments and in turn reduce the likelihood of persuasion [8]. Therefore, we expect that those who believe in persuasion through OPDFs would concentrate on generating well-reasoned arguments rather than a high volume of messages, as the former is likely to be effective in achieving persuasion, but not the latter. Thus, we hypothesize persuasion benefit to have a positive effect only on individuals’ quality of participation:
Hypothesis 3: Persuasion benefit has a positive effect on individuals’ quality of participation in an OPDF.
Political Efficacy
Political efficacy refers to an individual’s belief that political change is possible, and that the individual citizen can play a part in bringing about such change [9]. Individuals’ efficacy, in general, has been recognized as an important determinant of their behavior [3]. The positive relationship between political efficacy and offline participation is suggested in the literature [6]). In the context of citizen participation, political efficacy encompasses two dimensions, internal and external (e.g., [77, 79]). Internal political efficacy refers to individuals’ beliefs about their own competence to participate [79]. External political efficacy refers to individuals’ beliefs about the responsiveness of government authorities to citizens’ demands [79]. Thus, we assess political efficacy through these two dimensions.
  In general, the efficacy or confidence to perform a behavior may determine how motivated an individual is to put in effort to perform the behavior and achieve good results [3]. In an organizational context, efficacy is often manifested in individuals’ believing that their knowledge can help to solve job-related problems, which is positively associated with their providing high-quality contributions [19]. In OPDFs, we propose that the greater individuals’ confidence that their inputs will result in desired change in government policy, the more motivated they should be to invest effort and resources to contribute high-quality inputs.
  We do not, however, expect political efficacy to influence individuals’ quantity of participation in OPDFs, because political efficacy in our study is different from the knowledge self-efficacy belief generally investigated in previous studies, in which it is related to the frequency of knowledge sharing [48]. Political self-efficacy captures not only individuals’ belief in their own competence but also individuals’ belief that the relevant external party (government authorities) will respond to their inputs. When individuals believe they are able to bring about change in policy with high confidence in both themselves and government authorities, they may not feel the need to post many messages to achieve their participation objectives. Rather, quality is more important than quantity to get their message across clearly to the relevant authorities for their consideration. Indeed, previous research has indicated that quality of information is more effective than quantity of information in influencing decision making [51].Thus, we hypothesize political efficacy to positively affect only individuals’ quality of participation:
Hypothesis 4: Political efficacy has a positive effect on individuals’ quality of participation in an OPDF.
Civic Skills
Civic skills refer to individuals’ organizational and communication abilities that can facilitate their participation in civic and political activities [6, 114]. Such skills include the ability to speak and write well, organize ideas or views, and comfortably engage in discourse. Individuals can develop these skills largely through involvement in three key societal institutions, that is, the workplace, civic organizations (e.g., rotary clubs, unions, volunteer associations), and religious institutions [114]. These institutions provide opportunities for individuals to hone their civic skills, for example, through engaging in discussions, planning for events, and giving presentations [114]. We propose that individuals who have developed their civic skills will find it less daunting to participate in OPDFs. Specifically, they should be better able to communicate their views and organize information in support of their arguments. This should facilitate their contribution of high quality inputs to an OPDF.
  Civic skills, however, are not expected to influence individuals’ quantity of participation. Compared to formulating and presenting high-quality ideas that require greater skills [109], merely posting more messages places less demand on an individual’s abilities to organize information and communicate it to others. For instance, more postings could be generated by simply repeating messages containing similar ideas or by creating a series of messages containing irrelevant or unorganized information, neither of which requires higher civic skills. Indeed, previous research [112] has shown that communication-related abilities, such as facility in expressing ideas, do not drive an individual to contribute more inputs. Therefore, we hypothesize a positive effect of civic skills only on individuals’ quality of participation:
Hypothesis 5: Civic skills have a positive effect on individuals’ quality of participation in an OPDF.
Connectivity
Connectivity is an IT-enabled resource that makes it easier for an individual to reach and communicate with others who share common goals or interests [29]. IT resources such as online forum systems may afford connectivity in several ways. An online forum system typically records messages in a structured format wherein the identity information of the contributors, for example, their nickname, is tagged with their messages. This allows individuals to easily identify other participants who have common interests or goals. Mechanisms are also provided for individuals to communicate with others through such platforms, for example, by using the “reply” or “message” features. Previous researchers have suggested that when people perceive that it is easy to reach others who share common goals, they are more ready to engage in collective action [76]. Subsequently, connectivity has been found to positively influence contributors’ sharing of knowledge in online forums [112].
Because connectivity should make it easy for individuals to engage in policy discourses with others, we expect this IT-enabled resource to encourage individuals to post more messages to the forum, that is, to increase quantity of participation.
  However, it is unclear whether connectivity has an impact on the quality of argumentation in an OPDF. With higher connectivity, individuals may feel motivated to post more messages to interact with other participants because it is easy to do so, but such a resource may not facilitate the formulation of better arguments. For individuals to offer high-quality arguments, it may be more important for them to obtain relevant supporting information [23], for example, through communality, which is discussed next. Thus, we hypothesize connectivity to have a positive effect only on individuals’ quantity of participation.
Hypothesis 6: Connectivity has a positive effect on individuals’ quantity of participation in an OPDF.
Communality
Communality is an IT-enabled resource that makes it easier for an individual to access a common pool of information to perform generalized and productive exchanges [29, 76]. An online forum system may provide communality by acting as a repository of information and discussion content contributed by both policy makers and participants. A central repository can reduce participants’ effort to access relevant information [56], which facilitates their subsequent exchanges. As with connectivity, communality has been found to enhance individuals’ engagement in collective actions such as knowledge sharing [112]. In the context of group discussions, use of collaborative technologies that support common information access has also been found to enhance the amount of input generated [110]. Thus, we propose that communality facilitates individuals’ posting of more messages on OPDFs, that is, it increases the quantity of participation.
  In addition, literature on group discussions suggests that the quality of input generated may also improve with the information access support afforded by collaborative technologies [76, 110]. With ease of access to relevant information— for example, policy background and discussion history—through a common repository such as an OPDF, individuals may be better able to formulate highquality arguments that are substantiated with relevant information. Thus, we hypothesize:
Hypothesize 7a: Communality has a positive effect on individuals’ quantity of participation in an OPDF.
Hypothesis 7b: Communality has a positive effect on individuals’ quality of participation in an OPDF.
In addition to its effects on the dependent variables, communality may also influence the perceived collective incentives and the selective incentive to persuade others. Access to relevant information through communality may facilitate participants’ efforts to attain collective goals, for example, joint discourses may generate more comprehensive policy suggestions. Participants can learn from one another and build on one another’s contributions through communality [20]. Consequently, individuals may perceive collective incentives as more attainable when high communality is afforded by the OPDF:
Hypothesis 8: Communality is positively related to collective incentives perceived from participation in an OPDF.
Furthermore, communality may also facilitate individuals’ efforts to persuade others to adopt their opinion on a policy issue. Previous researchers have shown that having access to relevant information resources is essential for individuals to persuade others [8]. Similarly, it has been suggested that persuading concerns paying attention to who says what to whom and how they say it [57]. An online forum with high communality keeps a persistent record of conversations [25]. This can help participants understand the context of discussions and the views held by others, thus assisting them to persuade others. Consequently, a higher perception of communality should enhance individuals’ perceived persuasion benefit from participation in the OPDF. Accordingly, we hypothesize:
H9: Communality is positively related to perceived persuasion benefit from participation in an OPDF.
To account for alternative explanations, we also include in our model the following control variables that may influence individuals’ participation: gender, age, income, education, Internet experience, offline participation, and duration in the forum. Previous research has noted that males tend to be more active in public participation than females [44]. Age, income, and education are three basic socioeconomic factors that have been argued to influence participation, with those who are older and have higher income and educational levels expected to show higher inclination to participate [113]. Stronger Internet experience should facilitate an individual’s online participation [32]. Moreover, those who have been active in offline participation (for example, attending public meetings) may have a greater propensity for participation using electronic channels [32]. Last, individuals who have been members of an online forum for a longer duration are likely to be more active in the forum [7].
Research Methodology

This research employs a combination of the survey of OPDF members, objective counts, and content analysis of archival data (OPDF logs). Survey data are used to measure the independent variables, whereas archival data are used to assess the dependent variables.
Construct Operationalization
Dependent Variables
Following previous studies [116, 122], we measured the quantity of participation by objectively counting how many postings an individual contributed in the archival record of the OPDF under study over a period of twenty-eight months (the maximum time length of the data available). Postings that were clearly social in nature, for example, “hi there” or “thank you,” were omitted.
  To measure the quality of participation via the level of argumentation, we performed content analysis [55] on the messages contributed by each individual respondent. Content analysis allows for making inferences by systematically identifying specified characteristics within a text [105]. The method is appropriate for this study because it allows us to assess the messages posted by the participants within the embedded context of the deliberation of specific policy issues, and it yields relatively unobtrusive measures of the nature of the message [117].
  Various measures have been proposed in previous studies to evaluate the ideal state of participation in OPDFs [46]. Among them, we find the measures on level of argumentation to be most relevant to our study’s objective of assessing individuals’ quality of participation in OPDFs.8 A common criterion used in assessing the level of argumentation is how individuals justify their arguments with supporting information [47, 103]. The premise is that arguments justified with information can contribute to enhanced deliberation by advancing mutual understanding among participants [34]. Such information to support arguments may be drawn from internal or external sources [23, 47, 103]. Using a synthesis of existing work [47, 103] and the tripartite theory of knowledge [13, 104], we derived a comprehensive coding scheme consisting of five levels of argumentation, with five being the highest level and one the lowest, as shown in Table 1.9
  With this coding scheme, each argumentation instance in the forum messages of an individual was given a score of 1 to 5. A final score for the argumentation of each individual was then calculated as argumentation = (sum of argumentation scores of all instances) / (number of instances × 5).
This measure can take values from 0.2 to 1. To ensure that the measure is reliable, one of the authors and another researcher with relevant domain knowledge were engaged as raters to code the postings based on the following procedures: First, a set of fifty postings were randomly selected from the logs and given to the two raters to code. The two raters then independently coded the postings and recorded their coding. Second, they met to review their coding, identify any discrepancies between their coding, and resolve the discrepancies. The Cohen’s kappa score [17] before the discussion indicated less than satisfactory agreement between the raters, that is, lower than the 0.65 recommended threshold [17]. The raters’ discussion indicated that most of the disagreements occurred between scores 2 and 3 in the coding scheme, but a few arose because the delineating characteristics of the different


scores were unclear.10 Once consensus was reached and the issues clarified, the raters proceeded to code another set of fifty randomly selected postings and met again to compare their coding after completion. The kappa score computed in this round substantially improved to 0.68. To further improve the coding, the process was repeated for another round. This time the kappa score was 0.77, which is notably higher than the 0.65 threshold for interrater agreement [17].11 Subsequently, one of the raters continued to code the rest of the postings. Examples of the final coding for each of the levels of argumentation are presented in Table 1.
Independent Variables
The survey items for the independent variables were generated based on a review of the relevant IS and public administration literatures. Where previously tested measures were not available, items were developed based on the construct definition and description. Because the study employs several new measures—persuasion benefit, connectivity, and communality—a thorough instrument validation was conducted as per procedures given in [24]. All items were measured using a seven-point Likert scale (from strongly disagree to strongly agree), except civic skills, for which a fivepoint Likert scale (from never to often) was used.12 The construct operationalization is provided in Table 2.
  Civic skills and political efficacy were modeled as formative constructs, and the other independent variables were modeled as reflective constructs. Formative constructs are a composite of multiple measures, whereas reflective constructs have observed measures that are affected by an underlying latent, unobservable construct [70]. In contrast to reflective measures, for which a change in the construct affects the underlying measures, changes in the formative measures cause changes in the underlying construct [58]. The formative constructs we employ in this study are civic skills and political efficacy.
  The civic skills construct is modeled as a second-order formative construct formed by three first-order formative constructs, each capturing a set of skill acts practiced in different institutional environments (see Table 2). This model is used because individuals’ civic skills can be developed from their involvement in three major societal institutions: the workplace, civic organizations (e.g., Rotary clubs, unions, volunteer associations), and religious institutions [114]. Such a measurement of civic skills is considered more appropriate than asking the respondents to self-rate their skills, because the latter may confound with respondents’ efficacy perceptions [6]. Political efficacy is operationalized as a second-order formative construct consisting of two first-order reflective constructs: the internal dimension of political efficacy (IPEF) and the external dimension (EPEF) (see Table 2). The internal dimension captures individuals’ belief about their competence to discuss policy issues, whereas the external dimension captures the perceived responsiveness of government authorities to citizens’ views [79].


Research Context and Data Collection
For the field survey we collected data from members of a nationwide OPDF in a developed country in Southeast Asia. The OPDF is hosted by the government as a platform for engaging citizens in policy deliberation. It is the sole governmentinitiated OPDF in the country and was set up to be wide in scope, covering a broad range of policy issues, including the community, economy, education, environment, health, transportation, and urban planning. Examples of these issues include whether to extend a smoking ban to more public places and how to improve the public transportation systems. For each policy issue posted on the forum, the public agency responsible provides the policy’s background information, related documents, and links to relevant resources. At the end of the policy deliberation exercise, inputs from citizens and how they were considered in policy making are summarized and published. The data for this study were collected for a period of twenty-eight months during 2007–2009.
  When participating in the forum, individuals may use their real name or a pseudonym. At the time of study, 1,061 unique valid contributors’ names were identified (based on the forum logs over twenty-eight months). To minimize duplicate counting of names, we verified the contributors’ names using their e-mail addresses.13 There were on average 177 contributions made by forty-four participants per week in the forum. The forum was implemented using an online bulletin board that stores and organizes the discussion of different policy issues into threads, with the responses attached to their respective thread topics in a chronological order. Each response is tagged with the participant’s name, as well as the date and time of posting.
  The field survey was administered through an online questionnaire. The URL of the online survey was published on the OPDF website with the agreement of the forum administrators. When an OPDF member clicked on the URL, the member was directed to the survey website. The research objective was described on the survey website. The respondents were assured of the confidentiality of their responses and that only aggregated responses would be reported. All respondents received a token appreciation in the form of a shopping voucher mailed to the postal address they provided.
  Altogether, 118 responses were received, of which 17 were not used for subsequent analyses because the usernames could not be identified or they were from duplicate respondents14 (11 were identified to be duplicates, as they provided the same e-mail and postal addresses). This resulted in 101 usable responses from contributors, yielding a response rate of 9.5 percent based on the 1,061 unique valid contributors’ names identified in the forum.15 Such a response rate is typical of online surveys [102]. Overall, the respondents contributed on average 20.58 postings to the forum (standard deviation = 44.83, min. = 1, max. = 275; in total the respondents contributed 2,079 postings); their quality of participation had a mean of 0.47 (standard deviation = 0.08, min. = 0.33, max. = 0.80). Table 3 presents the demographic information of the sample.
  To test for possible nonresponse bias, we compared the means of all variables and the demographics of early respondents and late respondents, as is common practice [50]. The rationale is that the profile of late respondents may resemble that of nonrespondents [127] (e.g., if the survey had stopped earlier, late respondents would have become nonrespondents), and thus if no significant difference exists between the two groups, nonresponse bias is unlikely [50]. The results of our t-tests show that only one demographic variable is significantly different between early and late respondents, that is, gender, with males tending to respond earlier than females. This variable was included in our research model as one of the control variables to account for its potential influence.
Data Analysis and Results

To validate the research model, we used partial least squares (PLS) analysis because it allows for incorporation of both the reflective and formative indicators present in our model. (LISREL, the covariance-based structural equation modeling technique, is considered less appropriate for modeling formative constructs, such as the political efficacy and civic skills constructs employed in this study [12].)
Measurement Model Analysis
To validate the measurement model, we assessed the reflective measures reliability and validity. The descriptive statistics, Cronbach’s alpha (CA), composite reliability (CR), and average variance extracted (AVE) of the reflective constructs are presented in Table 4. As can be seen, all the reflective constructs exhibit acceptable levels of reliability (CA > 0.7, CR > 0.7, and AVE > 0.5).
  The constructs also demonstrate acceptable discriminant validity. The results of factor analysis show that the factor loadings of all items on their intended construct are above the minimum recommended level of 0.5, and each item loads higher on its intended construct than on any other construct [41]. 16 Discriminant validity was also assessed by comparing the square root of the AVE of each construct against its correlations with other constructs. The results (see Table 5) show that the diagonal elements (square root of AVE) exceeded other entries in the same row or column, thus satisfying the discriminant validity requirement.
  For the formative constructs (civic skills and political efficacy), we assessed the weights and the corresponding t-values of their measures in contributing to the respective constructs [118]. Our assessments17 indicate that all the measures made substantial contribution to their intended construct (for the first-level formative measures of civic skills, each measure significantly contributed to civic skills formed at one or more of the venues, that is, the workplace, civic organizations, or religious institutions). Also the VIF values of all the formative measures are below the threshold value of 10 [33, 99]. These results indicate that they are valid and important formative measures for their corresponding construct.
Structural Model Analysis
Prior to testing the hypotheses, we standardized all measures to avoid scale issues. To ensure the robustness of the results, we also performed a log transformation on the quantity of participation (number of postings) due to the skewness of this measure (0.67 after the transformation, which is within the acceptable range of ±2). Table 6 summarizes the results of hypotheses testing.
  The results shown in Table 6 indicate that of the twelve hypotheses, eight were supported. Specifically, collective incentives had a negative effect on quantity of participation (t = 1.96, p ? 0.05) but a positive effect on quality of participation (t = 2.00, p ? 0.05); therefore, H1a and H1b were supported. Also, consistent with our expectations, both persuasion benefit (t = 2.78, p ? 0.01) and political efficacy (t = 2.02, p ? 0.05) had a positive effect on quality of participation; thus, H3 and H4 were supported. However, political career benefit affected neither the quantity of participation (t = 1.08, p > 0.05) nor the quality of participation (t = 0.98, p > 0.05), so H2a and H2b were not supported. For the individuals’ resource factor, civic skills had a positive effect on quality of participation (t = 1.78, p ? 0.05), as hypothesized; thus, H5 was supported. Among the IT-enabled resource factors, connectivity did not affect quantity of participation (t = 1.30, p > 0.05); hence, H6 was not supported.


Communality, however, had a positive effect on quantity of participation (t = 2.29, p ? 0.05) but no effect on quality of participation (t = 0.64, p > 0.05); therefore, H7a was supported but H7b was not. H8 and H9 were both supported, with significant effects of communality on collective incentives (t = 5.09, p ? 0.001) and persuasion
  


benefit (t = 3.13, p ? 0.01). Among the control variables, gender, offline participation, and duration in the forum had significant effects on quantity of participation, whereas gender and income were found to influence quality of participation. Overall, the model explained 35 percent of the variance of quantity of participation and 36 percent of variance of quality of participation, both of which are well above the acceptable level of 10 percent [26].
  Further assessment of the model quality was performed using the Stone-Geisser’s Q2 coefficient specifically cross-validated redundancy index [106], which was estimated using the blindfolding procedure of SmartPLS. The coefficient is a cross-validated test of R2 between the manifest variables of a dependent latent variable and all the manifest variables associated with the latent variables [28, 106]. A Q2 coefficient greater than zero indicates that the model has predictive relevance [28]. Our assessment shows that the Q2 coefficient is 0.33 for quantity of participation and 0.39 for quality of participation, further suggesting that the predictive relevance of our model is acceptable.
Discussion and Implications

Our study’s objective was to investigate the antecedents of individuals’ participation in an increasingly available yet understudied form of online forums—OPDFs—that could have societal benefits in encouraging citizen participation in public policy deliberation. Specifically, we focus on two fundamental outcomes in these forums, that is, the quantity (number of postings) and quality (level of argumentation) of participation. Our results demonstrate clearly different antecedents for these two dependent variables. The research model that was developed based on citizen participation theories (the civic voluntarism model and the general incentives model) and the IT-enabled resource factors for public goods production provides considerable explanatory power (greater than 30 percent) for both the quantity and the quality of participation in an OPDF.
  Among the participation antecedents derived from the citizen participation theories, political career benefit does not have a significant impact on either the quantity or the quality of participation in the OPDF. A possible explanation for the nonsignificant effects is that participants may still be unsure of whether this relatively new platform for citizen engagement can indeed bring about political career advancement, compared to other more established citizen participation activities, such as campaigning and involvement in local community efforts [101]. Future research could probe deeper into how the virtual nature of participation in OPDFs may influence citizens’ perceptions toward this particular incentive.
  Among the hypotheses we developed to capture the influence of IT resource factors on participation, all are supported except for the effect of connectivity on the quantity of participation and the effect of communality on the quality of participation. To explore further why connectivity did not affect the quantity of participation, we analyzed the relationship between connectivity and the other model variables. We found that connectivity impacts communality (coefficient = 0.418, t = 3.966, p < 0.001), which could explain why our hypothesis was not supported. In other words, connectivity could play a role in enhancing communality, which in turn influences participation outcomes.
  Although communality significantly influences individuals’ quantity of participation, it has no impact on their quality of participation, which indicates that having easy access to a common pool of information resources does not by itself prompt individuals to formulate better arguments. This finding may be interpreted in conjunction with the significant effects of communality on collective incentives and persuasion benefit. Together the results seem to indicate that communality plays a primarily supportive role for individual’s argumentation. In other words, although communality does not directly influence participation quality, it helps an individual to appreciate specific incentives, which subsequently leads to better argumentation.
Implications for Research
This study has several important implications for research. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first attempt to examine two fundamental participation outcomes—quantity (number of postings) and quality (level of argumentation)— and hypothesize a priori the differences in their antecedents based on theory. This was achieved by drawing on relevant citizen participation theories, that is, general incentives [100, 101] and civic voluntarism [114] models, as well as the IT-related perspective for public goods production [29]. The integration of these perspectives in this study advances the theoretical development of citizen participation on two fronts.
  First, as the general incentives and civic voluntarism models expand their theoretical origins to better explain participation, we further this goal by integrating them in a complementary manner to leverage their strengths and address their limitations.18 On one hand, we extend the general incentives model with resource factors from the civic voluntarism model. On the other hand, we extend the civic voluntarism model with specific motivational factors of participation from the general incentives model. Although the strength of the civic voluntarism model lies in offering a comprehensive framework of different classes of participation antecedents, it does not systematically explicate which specific motivational factors are important, which the general incentives model does. Thus, we demonstrate how the two models can be further improved by integrating them to complement each other.
  Second, we broaden the scope of the citizen participation models, which were formulated with reference to offline participation, to the online context of OPDFs. Unlike offline participation, the online context affords large-scale participation of citizens [18]. However, such mass participation suffers from difficulties in organizing collective action [82]. Therefore, availability of resources in online spaces that can facilitate participation is particularly important. Employing the IT-related perspective for public goods production [29], we identified two relevant IT-enabled resources, namely, connectivity and communality. These two factors add to the existing participation models that highlight resource factors as an important type of participation antecedent, but they limit their attention to resources possessed by individuals and ignore those afforded by the participation environment. In sum, our theoretical contributions can be described as developing a theory for explaining the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs that integrates relevant and complementary theoretical perspectives. This theoretical contribution is in accordance with Gregor [37], who noted, “Each type of theory lacks something that another type has. Stronger and fuller theory can result if we regard our efforts in building one type of theory as part of a larger whole and remain aware of potential connections between the subparts” (p. 633).
  In addition, our research also adds to existing literature that explores the antecedents of the quantity and quality of participation in online forums. Although a few studies have suggested certain differences in the antecedents of the two participation outcomes, their findings have largely been obtained post hoc [87, 116, 122]. By theoretically deriving the differences in the antecedents of quantity and quality of participation a priori, we have developed a research model that more comprehensively and systematically compares the factors influencing the two. We also demonstrate that the differences may not be as straightforward as has been posited in previous research; that is, the quality of participation is not necessarily positively affected by socialoriented benefits and negatively affected by self-oriented benefits—and vice versa for quantity of participation. For instance, our study shows that persuasion benefit, which is self-oriented, also drives the quality of participation in OPDFs.
  Furthermore, our findings from OPDFs add to our understanding of what motivates participation in different kinds of online forums, given that online forums are not monolithic and that the findings obtained from one type of forum may not necessarily be applicable to another [72, 91].
  Methodologically, this study contributes by developing measures for the quality of participation and the IT-enabled resources. Through content analysis of the OPDF logs, the quality of participation (level of argumentation) was assessed based on a comprehensive coding scheme, which was developed by synthesizing relevant prior work19 and the tripartite theory of knowledge [13, 104]. Future research might employ the coding scheme for investigations in this area. In addition, the operationalization of the IT-enabled resources of connectivity and communality might also be employed for future research.
  More broadly, our study contributes to the stream of research on online cocreation of value by consumers [90, 128]. In the context of OPDFs in which citizens contribute inputs that may help to create value in the form of better public policy making, we address the important issue of how quality of cocreation can be evaluated [128] by proposing a comprehensive coding scheme for participation quality assessment. Furthermore, we explicate the specific antecedents that may enhance cocreation outcomes, that is, the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs.
Implications for Practice
Overall our study can help increase practitioners’ understanding of how the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs can be enhanced. Specifically, the findings enable practitioners to devise more customized interventions to improve the desired participation outcome. For instance, when the objective is to increase the quantity of participation (number of postings), forum administrators might consider enhancing the communality perception of individuals to encourage their posting activities. For instance, technologies such as discussion boards that keep a persistent record of discussions and organize them into threads should be employed in favor of other technologies such as chats and mailing lists [56]. The discussion boards may be enhanced with features such as a powerful search engine and user tagging of discussion contents that tap into collective intelligence to organize the information. These features would allow relevant information to be easily identified and accessed. In addition, practitioners might want to avoid emphasizing the collective incentives of participation if their primary aim is to increase the volume of postings. This may be particularly relevant in the initial stages of an OPDF, during which attaining a critical mass of postings is important [73].
  If the objective is to improve the quality of participation (level of argumentation) in the forum, administrators might highlight to participants that providing highquality inputs can benefit the broader community; that is, they can emphasize collective incentives. Examples of how well-argued inputs have contributed to formulation of better policies can be highlighted and made readily accessible to all participants; that is, the communality perception of the forum can be emphasized. Because persuasion benefit is important for the quality of participation, practitioners can also try to improve the perceived communality of the forum system, for example, by enabling easy access to previous discussion history and relevant information, so as to facilitate individuals’ persuasion attempts.
  As a longer-term measure, citizens’ civic skills should be emphasized as important for facilitating their argumentation. One way to achieve this is through encouraging the formation of civic organizations, for example, study circles [97], in which citizens can develop these skills. Alternatively, administrators could identify individuals with these skills and mobilize them to join OPDFs to enhance deliberation. To improve the political efficacy of citizens, which also affects their argumentation, a two-pronged approach is recommended. First, encouragement can be provided to contributors regarding their inputs to improve their confidence. Second, active efforts are needed to convince contributors that their inputs matter and will be considered seriously by policy makers. Newsletters and other materials that detail how their inputs have been incorporated into policy making can be published for this purpose.
Limitations and Future Work
The findings from this study should be interpreted in light of its limitations. First, our study was conducted in the context of a nationwide OPDF in a developed Asian country. The institutional contexts may vary across nations, and even states [97], which may restrict the generalizability of our findings. However, with the inclusion of political efficacy in our model, which is closely linked to institutional context [114], this limitation may be less critical. Nevertheless, future research might investigate similar forums embedded in various institutional contexts to further validate our findings. Second, because of the cross-sectional design of this study, causation cannot be robustly claimed [35]. Yet, although the significant paths found between the model constructs may be interpreted as correlational, our grounding in relevant theory provides support for making causal inferences from their relationships. There may also be bidirectional effects between certain constructs in this study. For instance, individuals’ political efficacy beliefs may change with their increased participation in the forum over time. Future research might employ a longitudinal panel design to capture such possible dynamics and to establish stronger causal relationships between the constructs.
  Third, although our research model offers considerable explanatory power (greater than 30 percent for both quantity and quality of participation), future research might attempt to further improve the explanatory power by considering other factors beyond the individual level, for example, factors related to community social capital [92] that may influence participation outcomes. Other outcomes, for instance, satisfaction derived from participation and alternative aspects of participation quality such as sincerity [46], might also be examined in future research to obtain a fuller understanding of participation in OPDFs. Last, the sample size, based on an approximately 10–15 percent response rate from the focal OPDF, could be improved. This rate is typical of online surveys [102] and common for studies on e-government issues that involve citizen subjects [53, 93], but future research with a larger sample size would be valuable.
Conclusions

As governments across the globe increasingly initiate OPDFs, understanding how public administration and policy making can be improved through such forums is important for both governmental organizations and society at large. Grounded in theory and supported with empirical data, our model, which simultaneously explains the antecedents of the quantity and quality of participation, serves to motivate and advance research on this increasingly important phenomenon, as well as on the broader issue of cocreation enabled by the web.

